<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="grammar-files">
  <title>Grammar files</title>
  <shortdesc>This topic lists the changes that have been made to the grammar files.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <title>Catalog files</title>
      <p>Certain catalog files were incomplete. The catalog files now contain the following catalog
        entries:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>System and URI entries for <filepath>mathmlDomainProxy.rng</filepath></li>
        <li rev="errata-01-review">System and URI entries for
          <filepath>mathml3-qname.mod</filepath></li>
        <li>URI entries for <filepath>ditaarch.xsd</filepath> and <filepath>xml.xsd</filepath></li>
<li rev="errata-01-public-review">Public identifiers for machinery task body constraint and map
classification domain that match the public IDs shipped with DITA 1.2.</li>
<!--<li rev="errata-01-public-review">Public identifiers for DITA version 1.x</li>-->
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Document-type shells and module files: Learning Group map and Learning Object
        map</title>
      <p>The DTD- and XSD-based versions of the document-type shells for the Learning Group map and
        Learning Object map referenced incorrectly constructed constraints. As a result, these
        document-type shells enabled content models that were more permissive than those allowed by
        the (normative) RNG-based versions of the document-type shells. The DTD- and XSD-based
        constraint modules and document-type shells now have been revised so that they match the
        RNG-based versions of those document-type shells.</p>
      <p>The following files are modified:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>DTDs:<ul>
            <li><filepath>learningAggregationsTopicrefConstraint.mod</filepath></li>
            <li><filepath>learningGroupMap.dtd</filepath></li>
            <li><filepath>learningObjectMap.dtd</filepath></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>XML schemas:<ul>
            <li><filepath>learningGroupMap.xsd</filepath></li>
            <li><filepath>learningObjectMap.xsd</filepath></li>
            <li><filepath>learningGroupMapIntMod.xsd</filepath> (new file)</li>
            <li><filepath>learningObjectMapIntMod.xsd</filepath> (new file)</li>
            <li><filepath>learningAggregationsTopicrefConstraintMod.xsd</filepath> (removed
              file)</li>
          </ul></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section rev="errata-01-public-review">
      <title>Document-type shells and module files: Comments</title>
      <p>Some grammar files contained incorrect public identifiers in XML comments.</p>
      <p>The following files are modified:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><filepath>bookmap.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></li>
        <li><filepath>deliveryTargetAttDomain.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></li>
        <li><filepath>ditaval.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></li>
        <li><filepath>glossary.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></li>
      </ul>
      <p>where <varname>ext</varname> is either <filepath>dtd</filepath>, <filepath>rng</filepath>,
        or <filepath>xsd</filepath>.</p>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
