<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_kd4_c4c_pw">
  <title>Written specification</title>
  <shortdesc>The table lists the changes that have been made to the written portion of the DITA 1.3
    specification.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0* 1.0*">
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Topic</stentry>
          <stentry>Original text</stentry>
          <stentry>Revised text</stentry>
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry>1.6 Formatting conventions in errata versions of the specification</stentry>
          <stentry>None</stentry>
          <stentry>[A new topic that explains how content that has been modified in errata versions
            of the specification is highlighted with coloring and visual indicators.]</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>2.2.2.3 DITA map elements<ph rev="errata-01-review"> [Explanation of
                <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement>]</ph></stentry>
          <stentry>Enables authors to reference a navigation branch that is defined in another DITA
            map.</stentry>
          <stentry>Enables authors to reference a navigation branch that is defined in <u>the
              current map or in</u> another DITA map.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>2.3.4.2 Key scopes</stentry>
          <stentry>A key scope is defined by a <ph rev="errata-01-review"
                ><xmlelement>map</xmlelement> or</ph>
            <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element that specifies the <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt>
            attribute. The <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> attribute specifies the names of the scope,
            separated by spaces.</stentry>
          <stentry>A key scope is defined by a <ph rev="errata-01-review"
                ><xmlelement>map</xmlelement> or</ph>
            <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element that specifies the <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt>
            attribute. The <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> attribute specifies the names of the scope,
            separated by spaces. <u>The legal characters for a key scope name are the same as those
              for keys.</u></stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>2.4.2 Content reference (conref)</stentry>
          <stentry>None</stentry>
          <stentry>
            <p>
              <b><u>Related concept:</u></b>
            </p>
            <p><u>2.5.5.4 Weak and strong constraints</u></p>
          </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>2.4.4.6.2 Example: Multiple <xmlelement>ditavalref</xmlelement> elements on a
            branch</stentry>
          <stentry>
            <codeblock>&lt;map> &lt;topicref href="intro.dita"/> <b>&lt;!-- Begining of installing
              branch --></b> &lt;topicref href="install.dita"> &lt;ditavalref href="win.ditaval"/>
              &lt;ditavalref href="mac.ditaval"> &lt;ditavalmeta>
              &lt;dvrResourceSuffix>-apple&lt;/dvrResourceSuffix> &lt;/ditavalmeta> &lt;/ditavalref>
              &lt;ditavalref href="linux.ditaval"> &lt;ditavalmeta>
              &lt;dvrResourceSuffix>-linux&lt;/dvrResourceSuffix> &lt;/ditavalmeta> &lt;/ditavalref>
              &lt;topicref href="do-stuff.dita"> &lt;topicref href="mac-specific-stuff.dita"
              platform="mac"/> &lt;/topicref> <b>&lt;!-- End of installing branch --></b>
              &lt;topicref href="cleanup.dita"/> &lt;/topicref> &lt;/map></codeblock>
          </stentry>
          <stentry>
            <codeblock>&lt;map> &lt;topicref href="intro.dita"/> <b>&lt;!-- Begining of installing
              branch --></b> &lt;topicref href="install.dita"> &lt;ditavalref href="win.ditaval"/>
              &lt;ditavalref href="mac.ditaval"> &lt;ditavalmeta>
              &lt;dvrResourceSuffix>-apple&lt;/dvrResourceSuffix> &lt;/ditavalmeta> &lt;/ditavalref>
              &lt;ditavalref href="linux.ditaval"> &lt;ditavalmeta>
              &lt;dvrResourceSuffix>-linux&lt;/dvrResourceSuffix> &lt;/ditavalmeta> &lt;/ditavalref>
              &lt;topicref href="do-stuff.dita"> <u>&lt;!-- more topics and nested branches --></u>
              &lt;topicref href="mac-specific-stuff.dita" platform="mac"/> &lt;/topicref> <b>&lt;!--
                End of installing branch --></b> &lt;topicref href="cleanup.dita"/> &lt;/topicref>
              &lt;/map></codeblock>
          </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow rev="errata-01-public-review">
          <stentry>2.5.3.6 <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute rules and syntax</stentry>
          <stentry>A sequence of one or more tokens of the form
                <codeph>"<varname>modulename</varname>/<varname>typename</varname>",</codeph> with
            each taoken separated by one or more spaces, where <varname>modulename</varname> is the
            short name of the vocabulary module and <varname>typename</varname> is the element type
            name. </stentry>
          <stentry>A sequence of one or more tokens of the form
                <codeph>"<varname>modulename</varname>/<varname>typename</varname>",</codeph> with
            each <line-through>taoken</line-through>
            <u>token</u> separated by one or more spaces, where <varname>modulename</varname> is the
            short name of the vocabulary module and <varname>typename</varname> is the element type
            name. </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>2.5.5.6.<ph rev="errata-01-review">6</ph> Example: Correct the constraint for the
            machinery task</stentry>
          <stentry>None</stentry>
          <stentry>[New example topic]</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>2.6.3.1 DTD: Overview of coding requirements</stentry>
          <stentry>DITA coding practices for DTDs rely heavily on entities to implement
            specialization and constrraints.</stentry>
          <stentry>DITA coding practices for DTDs rely heavily on entities to implement
            specialization and <line-through>constrraints</line-through>
            <u>constraints</u>.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>2.7.1.3 General task topic</stentry>
          <stentry>None</stentry>
          <stentry>[Added an additional row to the table that compares the structure of the general
            and strict task topics]<p><u>tasktroubleshooting (optional, one only)</u> |
                <u>tasktroubleshooting (optional, one only)</u></p></stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>2.7.1.4 Task topic (strict task)</stentry>
          <stentry>None</stentry>
          <stentry>
            <dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><u><xmlelement>tasktroubleshooting</xmlelement></u></dt>
                <dd><u>Describes actions that a user might take if the task does not produce the
                    expected results.</u></dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl>
          </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>3 Language reference: Technical content edition</stentry>
          <stentry>Each element defined in the techical content specializations</stentry>
          <stentry>Each element defined in the <line-through>techical</line-through><u>technical</u>
            content specializations</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>3 Language reference: All-inclusive edition</stentry>
          <stentry>Each element defined in the techical content specializations</stentry>
          <stentry>Each element defined in the <line-through>techical</line-through><u>technical</u>
            content specializations</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>3.2.3.1 <xmlelement>table</xmlelement></stentry>
          <stentry>The following attributes are available on this element: Universal attribute
            group, <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>display</xmlatt>, and
              <xmlatt>scale</xmlatt> from Display attribute group, and the attributes defined
            below.</stentry>
          <stentry>The following attributes are available on this element: Universal attribute
            group, <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt>,
              <line-through><xmlatt>display</xmlatt></line-through>
            <u><xmlatt>frame</xmlatt></u>, and <xmlatt>scale</xmlatt> from Display attribute group,
            and the attributes defined below.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow rev="errata-01-review">
          <stentry>3.3.1.11 <xmlelement>ux-window</xmlelement></stentry>
          <stentry>
            <codeblock>&amp;lt;ux-window id="p76" name="ux-tablet" top="5%" left="5%" height="90%" width="90%" 
    features="status=no,toolbar=no,menubar=no,location=no" relative="no"
    full-screen="no" /></codeblock>
          </stentry>
          <stentry>
            <codeblock>&amp;lt;ux-window id="p76" name="ux-tablet" top="<line-through>5%</line-through>1cm" left="<line-through>5%</line-through><u>1cm</u>" height="<line-through>90%</line-through><u>4cm</u>" width="<line-through>90%</line-through><u>3cm</u>" 
    features="status=no,toolbar=no,menubar=no,location=no" relative="no"
    full-screen="no" /></codeblock>
          </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>3.4.3.1 <xmlelement>exportanchors</xmlelement></stentry>
          <stentry>The <xmlelement>exportanchors</xmlelement> element canbe used within a topic
            prolog, in which case the defined IDs apply to IDs within that topic (excluding
            sub-topics). </stentry>
          <stentry>The <xmlelement>exportanchors</xmlelement> element <u>can be</u> used within a
            topic prolog, in which case the defined IDs apply to IDs within that topic (excluding
            sub-topics). </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>3.5.4.2 <xmlelement>ditavalmeta</xmlelement></stentry>
          <stentry>The <xmlelement>ditavalmeta</xmlelement> element also can contain other
            information, such as author and navigation title, that might be useful for map
            architects but is not rendered in the output.</stentry>
          <stentry>The <xmlelement>ditavalmeta</xmlelement> element also can contain other
            information, such as <line-through>author and</line-through> navigation title, that
            might be useful for map architects but is not rendered in the output.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow rev="errata-01-review">
          <stentry>3.10 Technical content elements</stentry>
          <stentry>Elements in the technical content section include the original Concept, Task, and
            Reference specializations, as well as the Bookmap and Glossary specializations added
            with DITA 1.1. It also includes domains designed primarily for technical content, such
            as the task requirements and software domains.</stentry>
          <stentry>Elements in the technical content section include the original Concept, Task, and
            Reference specializations, as well as <line-through>the Bookmap and
              Glossary</line-through> specializations added <line-through>with DITA
              1.1</line-through>
            <u>in later releases</u>. It also includes domains designed primarily for technical
              content<line-through>, such as the task requirements and software
              domains</line-through>.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>3.10.4 Troubleshooting elements</stentry>
          <stentry>Short description needed</stentry>
          <stentry>
            <line-through>Short description needed</line-through>
            <u>Troubleshooting topics document corrective action such as troubleshooting or alarm
              clearing.</u>
          </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>3.10.4.1 <xmlelement>troubleshooting</xmlelement></stentry>
          <stentry>The <xmlelement>troubleshooting</xmlelement> element is the top-level element for
            a troubleshooting topic. Troubleshooting topics document corrective action such as
            troubleshooting or alarm clearing. Troubleshooting topics begin with a description of a
            condition that the reader might want to correct, followed by one or more cause-remedy
            pairs. Each cause-remedy pair is a potential solution to the trouble described in the
            condition.</stentry>
          <stentry>The <xmlelement>troubleshooting</xmlelement> element is the top-level element for
            a troubleshooting topic. <line-through>Troubleshooting topics document corrective action
              such as troubleshooting or alarm clearing.</line-through> Troubleshooting topics begin
            with a description of a condition that the reader might want to correct, followed by one
            or more cause-remedy pairs. Each cause-remedy pair is a potential solution to the
            trouble described in the condition.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow rev="errata-01-public-review">
          <stentry>3.11.2.2 <xmlelement>learningObjectMap</xmlelement></stentry>
          <stentry>The <xmlelement>learningObjectMap</xmlelement> references one and only one
              <xmlelement>learningObject</xmlelement>. Any <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
            elements that occur before the <xmlelement>learningObject</xmlelement> are intended to
            be resource-only references such as key definitions.</stentry>
          <stentry><u>Use the</u>
            <line-through>The</line-through>
            <xmlelement>learningObjectMap</xmlelement>
            <line-through>references one and only one</line-through>
            <u>to reference a single</u>
            <xmlelement>learningObject</xmlelement>. Any <u>specializations of
              </u><xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements that occur before the
              <xmlelement>learningObject</xmlelement> are intended to be resource-only references
            such as key definitions.</stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
