<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="arch-atts" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>Architectural attribute group</title>
 <shortdesc>The architectural attributes group includes a set of attributes defined for document
    level elements such as <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>map</xmlelement>. These
    attributes are intended to provide information about the DITA namespace, what level of DITA is
    in use, and what vocabulary modules are in use.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>Architectural attribute group</indexterm>
    <indexterm>Commonly referenced attribute descriptions<indexterm>Architectural
      attributes</indexterm>
    </indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <refbody>
  <section id="section-1">
   <dl>
        <!--<dlhead conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/attributeDlhead"><dthd/><ddhd/></dlhead>-->
    <dlentry id="DITAArchVersion">
     <dt><xmlatt>DITAArchVersion</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd><indexterm>DITAArchVersion
                attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>DITAArchVersion</indexterm></indexterm>Designates
            the version of the architecture that is in use. The default value will increase with
            each release of DITA. This attribute is in the namespace
            "http://dita.​oasis-open.​org/​architecture/​2005/".  This attribute is defined with the
            XML data type CDATA, but uses a default value of the current version of DITA. The
            current default is "1.3".<?datatype CDATA?><?default "1.2"?></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="xmlnsditaarch">
     <dt><xmlatt>xmlns:ditaarch</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd><indexterm>xmlns:ditaarch
                attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>xmlns:ditaarch</indexterm></indexterm>Declares
            the default DITA
            namespace.<?datatype?><?default "http://dita.ƒ??oasis-open.ƒ??org/ƒ??architecture/ƒ??2005/"?>
            Although this is technically a namespace rather than an attribute, it is included here
            because it is specified as an attribute in the DTD grammar files distributed by OASIS.
            The value is fixed to "http://dita.​oasis-open.​org/​architecture/​2005/".</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="domains">
     <dt><xmlatt>domains</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd><indexterm>domains
              attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>domains</indexterm></indexterm>Indicates
            the specialized domains that are included in the DTD or Schema. This attribute is
            defined with the XML data type CDATA, and each new document type <term
              outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> specify a default. The value
            will differ depending on what domains are included in the current DTD or Schema; a
            sample value is "(topic ui-d) (topic hi-d) (topic pr-d) (topic sw-d) (topic ut-d) (topic
            indexing-d)"<?datatype CDATA?><?default Varies based on the DTD or Schema; a sample value is
				  "(topic ui-d) (topic hi-d) (topic pr-d) (topic sw-d) (topic ut-d) (topic
				  indexing-d)"?>.</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </section>
 </refbody>
</reference>

