<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="oet-atts" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>Complex-table attribute group</title>
 <shortdesc>The Complex-table attribute group includes several attributes that are defined on
  complex table elements. Most of these attributes are part of the OASIS Exchange model; table
  elements generally use only a subset of the attributes defined in this group. These attributes are
  not available for the <xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement> elements.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>align attribute</indexterm>
    <indexterm>attributes<indexterm>align</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>attributes<indexterm>char</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>attributes<indexterm>charoff</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>attributes<indexterm>colsep</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>attributes<indexterm>rowsep</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>attributes<indexterm>valign</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>char attribute</indexterm>
    <indexterm>charoff attribute</indexterm>
    <indexterm>colsep attribute</indexterm>
    <indexterm>complex-table attribute group</indexterm>
    <indexterm>commonly-referenced attribute descriptions<indexterm>Complex-table
      attributes</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>rowsep attribute</indexterm>
    <indexterm>valign attribute</indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <refbody>
  <section id="section-1">
   <dl>
    <dlentry id="align">
     <dt><xmlatt>align</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd>Describes the alignment of text in a table column. Allowable values are: <dl>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>left </dt>
        <dd>Indicates left alignment of the text. </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>right </dt>
        <dd>Indicates right alignment of the text. </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>center </dt>
        <dd>Indicates center alignment of the text. </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>justify </dt>
        <dd>Justifies the contents to both the left and the right. </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>char </dt>
        <dd>Use the character specified on the <xmlatt>char</xmlatt> attribute for alignment. </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/ditauseconref">
        <dt>-dita-use-conref-target </dt>
        <dd> </dd>
       </dlentry>
      </dl><p>The <xmlatt>align</xmlatt> attribute is available on the following table elements:
        <xmlelement>tgroup</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement>, and
        <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement>.</p></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="char">
     <dt><xmlatt>char</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd>Specifies the character for aligning the table entry data. <p>Default source for
        <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement> elements starting in this column. If character alignment is
       specified, the value is the single alignment character source for any implied
        <xmlatt>char</xmlatt> values for entry immediately in this column. A value of &quot;&quot;
       (the null string) means there is no aligning character. </p><p>For example, if
        <codeph>align="char"</codeph> and <codeph>char="r"</codeph> are specified, then text in the
       entry should align with the first occurrence of the letter "r" within the entry. </p><p>The
        <xmlatt>char</xmlatt> attribute is available on the following table elements:
        <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement> and
      <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement>.</p><!--Comment in DITA 1.3 Phase 1 review asked what it means if the "r" isn't actually specified. The language here could be cleaned up, but is essentially the same as the language in the OASIS Exchange Model, so leaving it alone now; don't want to force processors to add an error for this condition in DITA, when not required in other languages that use this model.--></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="charoff">
     <dt><xmlatt>charoff</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd>Specifies the horizontal offset of alignment character when <codeph>align="char"</codeph>.
       <p>Default source for <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement> elements starting in this column. For
       character alignment on an entry in the column, horizontal character offset is the percent of
       the current column width to the left of the (left edge of the) alignment character.
       </p><p>This value should be number, greater than 0 and less than or equal to 100. </p><p>For
       example, if <codeph>align="char"</codeph>, <codeph>char="r"</codeph>, and
        <codeph>charoff="50"</codeph> are all specified, then text in the entry should align 50% of
       the distance to the left of the first occurrence of the character "r" within the entry.
       </p><p>The <xmlatt>charoff</xmlatt> attribute is available on the following table elements:
        <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement>.</p></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="colsep">
     <dt><xmlatt>colsep</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd>Column separator. A value of 0 indicates no separators; 1 indicates separators. <p>The
        <xmlatt>colsep</xmlatt> attribute is available on the following table elements:
        <xmlelement>table</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>tgroup</xmlelement>,
        <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement>, and <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement>.</p></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="rowheader">
     <dt><xmlatt>rowheader</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd>Indicates whether the entries in the respective column <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
       >SHOULD</term> be considered row headers. Allowable values are: <dl>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>firstcol</dt>
        <dd>Indicates that entries in the first column of the table are functionally row headers
         (analogous to the way that a <xmlelement>thead</xmlelement> element provides column
         headers). Applies when <xmlatt>rowheader</xmlatt> is used on the
          <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> element.</dd>
       </dlentry>
      </dl><dl>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>headers</dt>
        <dd>Indicates that entries of a column described using the <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement>
         element are functionally row headers (for cases with more than one column of row headers).
         Applies when <xmlatt>rowheader</xmlatt> is used on the <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement>
         element.</dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>norowheader</dt>
        <dd>Indicates that entries in the first column have no special significance with respect to
         column headers. Applies when <xmlatt>rowheader</xmlatt> is used on the
          <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> element.</dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/ditauseconref">
        <dt/>
        <dd/>
       </dlentry>
      </dl><note>This attribute is not part of the OASIS Exchange Table model upon which DITA tables
       are based. Some DITA processors or output formats might not support all values. </note><p>The
        <xmlatt>rowheader</xmlatt> attribute is available on the following table elements:
        <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement>.</p></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="rowsep">
     <dt><xmlatt>rowsep</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd>Row separator. A value of 0 indicates no separators; 1 indicates separators. <p>The
        <xmlatt>rowsep</xmlatt> attribute is available on the following table elements:
        <xmlelement>table</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>tgroup</xmlelement>,
        <xmlelement>row</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement>, and
        <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement>.</p></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="valign">
     <dt><xmlatt>valign</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd>Indicates the vertical alignment of text in a table entry (cell). Allowable values are: <dl>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>top </dt>
        <dd>Align the text to the top of the table entry (cell). </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>bottom </dt>
        <dd>Align the text to the bottom of the table entry (cell). </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>middle </dt>
        <dd>Align the text to the middle of the table entry (cell). </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/ditauseconref">
        <dt>-dita-use-conref-target </dt>
        <dd> </dd>
       </dlentry>
      </dl><p>The <xmlatt>valign</xmlatt> attribute is available on the following table elements:
        <xmlelement>thead</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>tbody</xmlelement>,
       <xmlelement>row</xmlelement>, and <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement>.</p></dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </section>
 </refbody>
</reference>

