<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="topicref-atts" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>Attributes common to many map elements</title>
 <shortdesc>This attribute group collects several attributes that are used on a variety of map
  elements. For a few elements, the group is modified slightly to remove an attribute such as
   <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>format</xmlatt>; in those cases the element definition will
  clarify that the element does not use this full set. That is generally done in order to specify a
  default for one attribute, such as defaulting <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> to "ditamap" on the
   <xmlelement>mapref</xmlelement> element.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>Common map attribute group</indexterm>
    <indexterm>Commonly referenced attribute descriptions<indexterm>Common map
      attributes</indexterm></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <refbody>
  <section id="section-1">
   <dl>
    <!--<dlhead conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/attributeDlhead"><dthd/><ddhd/></dlhead>-->
    <dlentry id="cascade" >
     <dt><xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd>Controls how metadata attributes cascade within a map. There are two defined values that
      should be supported: "merge" and "nomerge". If no value is set, and no value cascades from an
      ancestor element, processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> assume a default of
      "merge". See <xref href="../../archSpec/base/cascading-in-a-ditamap.dita"/> for more
      information about how this attribute interacts with metadata attributes.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="collection-type">
     <dt><xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd><indexterm>collection-type
        attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>collection-type</indexterm></indexterm>Collection
      types describe how links relate to each other. The processing default is "unordered", although
      no default is specified in the DTD or Schema. Allowable values are:<dl id="colltypevalues">
       <dlentry>
        <dt>unordered </dt>
        <dd>Indicates that the order of the child topics is not significant. </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>sequence </dt>
        <dd>Indicates that the order of the child topics is significant; output processors will
         typically link between them in order. </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>choice </dt>
        <dd>Indicates that one of the children should be selected. </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>family </dt>
        <dd>Represents a tight grouping in which each of the referenced topics not only relates to
         the current topic but also relate to each other. </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/ditauseconref">
        <dt> </dt>
        <dd> </dd>
       </dlentry>
      </dl><p>Usage of the <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> attribute on
        <xmlelement>reltable</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement> is currently
       undefined and reserved for future use. </p></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="processing-role">
     <dt><xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd><indexterm>processing-role
        attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>processing-role</indexterm></indexterm>Describes
      the processing role of the referenced topic. The processing default is "normal". <ph
       conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/may-inherit"/> Allowable values are:<dl>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>normal </dt>
        <dd>Normal topic that is a readable part of the information. </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>resource-only </dt>
        <dd>The topic is used as a resource for processing purposes. This topic should not be
         included in a rendered table of contents, and the topic should not be rendered on its own.
        </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/ditauseconref">
        <dt> </dt>
        <dd> </dd>
       </dlentry>
      </dl></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="locktitle">
     <dt><xmlatt>locktitle</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd ><indexterm>locktitle
        attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>locktitle</indexterm></indexterm>If the
       <xmlatt>locktitle</xmlatt> attribute is set to "yes", the content of the
       <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> element or <xmlatt>navtitle</xmlatt> attribute is used for
      a navigation title, if it is present. If the <xmlatt>locktitle</xmlatt> attribute is not
      present or set to "no", the content of the <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> element or
       <xmlatt>navtitle</xmlatt> attribute is ignored, and the title of the referenced topic is used
      as a navigation title. <note
       conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/deprecated_navtitle_attribute"/><p>Allowable
       values for <xmlatt>locktitle</xmlatt> are:<dl>
        <dlentry>
         <dt>yes </dt>
         <dd>The content of the <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> element or
           <xmlatt>navtitle</xmlatt> attribute is used for a navigation title.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
         <dt>no </dt>
         <dd>The content of the <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> element or
           <xmlatt>navtitle</xmlatt> attribute is ignored. This is the processing default. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/ditauseconref">
         <dt> </dt>
         <dd> </dd>
        </dlentry>
       </dl></p></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="linking">
     <dt><xmlatt>linking</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd><indexterm>linking
       attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>linking</indexterm></indexterm>Defines
      some specific linking characteristics of a topic&apos;s current location in the map. <ph
       conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/inherit-in-map"/> Allowable
      values are:<dl>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>targetonly </dt>
        <dd>A topic can only be linked to and cannot link to other topics. </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>sourceonly </dt>
        <dd>A topic cannot be linked to but can link to other topics. </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>normal </dt>
        <dd>A topic can be linked to and can link to other topics. Use this to override the linking
         value of a parent topic. </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>none </dt>
        <dd>A topic cannot be linked to or link to other topics. </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/ditauseconref">
        <dt> </dt>
        <dd> </dd>
       </dlentry>
      </dl></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="toc">
     <dt><xmlatt>toc</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd><indexterm>toc
       attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>toc</indexterm></indexterm>Specifies
      whether a topic appears in the table of contents (TOC). <ph
       conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/inherit-in-map"/> Allowable
      values are:<dl>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>yes </dt>
        <dd rev="public-review-1">The topic appears in a generated TOC.</dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>no </dt>
        <dd rev="public-review-1">The topic does not appear in a generated TOC.</dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>-dita-use-conref-target </dt>
        <dd>See <xref href="ditauseconreftarget.dita"/> for more information. </dd>
       </dlentry>
      </dl></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="print">
     <dt><xmlatt>print</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd><indexterm>print
       attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>print</indexterm></indexterm>Specifies
      whether the topic should be included in a print-specific rendition, such as PDF. The
      processing default is "yes". <ph
       conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/inherit-in-map"/>
      <note conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/deprecated-print-attribute"
       /><p>Allowable values are: <dl
        conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/printvalues">
        <dlentry>
         <dt/>
         <dd/>
        </dlentry>
       </dl></p></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="search">
     <dt><xmlatt>search</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd><indexterm>search
       attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>search</indexterm></indexterm>Describes
      whether the target is available for searching. <ph
       conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/inherit-in-map"/> Allowable
      values are: <dl>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>yes </dt>
        <dd> </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>no </dt>
        <dd> </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt><xref href="ditauseconreftarget.dita">-dita-use-conref-target</xref>
        </dt>
        <dd> </dd>
       </dlentry>
      </dl></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="chunk">
     <dt><xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd><indexterm>chunk
       attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>chunk</indexterm></indexterm>When a set
      of topics is transformed using a map, the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute allows multi-topic
      documents to be broken into smaller files and multiple individual topics to be combined into
      larger combined documents.<p>For a detailed description of the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt>
       attribute and its usage, see <xref href="../../archSpec/base/chunking.dita"/>.</p></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="keyscope" >
     <dt><xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd>Specifies that the element marks the boundaries of a key scope. See <xref
       href="the-key-scope-attribute.dita"/> for details on how to use the <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt>
      attribute.</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </section>
 </refbody>
</reference>


