<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="common-atts" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Common attributes</title>
  <shortdesc>The common attributes topic collects defines most of the attributes that are used on
    more than one base element.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>common attributes</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="summary">
      <title>Common attribute groups</title>
      <p>The following groups are referenced in this specification, and
        they are also used in grammar files when defining attributes for
        elements.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="architecturalatts">
          <dt>Architectural attributes</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="architectural-attr">This group includes a set of
              attributes that are defined for document-level elements such
              as <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> and
                <xmlelement>map</xmlelement>:
                <xmlatt>DITAArchVersion</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>specializations</xmlatt>, and
                <xmlatt>xmlns:ditaarch</xmlatt>.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="commonmapatts">
          <dt>Common map attributes</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="common-map-attr">This group includes attributes that are
              frequently used on map elements: <xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>linking</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>search</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt>, and <xmlatt rev="2.0"
                >subjectrefs</xmlatt>.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="complextableatts">
          <dt>Complex table attributes</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="complex-table-attr">This group includes attributes that
              are defined on table elements but not simple table elements.
              These attributes are part of the OASIS Exchange Table Model,
              unless otherwise noted. Table elements generally use only a
              subset of the attributes that are defined in this group. This
              group contains the following attributes:
                <xmlatt>align</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>char</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>charoff</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>colsep</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>rowheader</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>rowsep</xmlatt>, and
                <xmlatt>valign</xmlatt>.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dataatts">
          <dt>Data-element attributes</dt>
          <dd>Includes attributes defined on <xmlelement>data</xmlelement>
            and its many specializations: <xmlatt>datatype</xmlatt>,
              <xmlatt>name</xmlatt>, and <xmlatt>value</xmlatt></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dateatts">
          <dt>Date attributes</dt>
          <dd>Includes attributes that take date values, and are defined on
            metadata elements that work with date information:
              <xmlatt>expiry</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>golive</xmlatt></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="displayatts">
          <dt>Display attributes</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="display-attr">This group includes attributes that affect
              the rendering of many elements: <xmlatt>expanse</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>frame</xmlatt>, and <xmlatt>scale</xmlatt>.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="inclusionatts">
          <dt>Inclusion attributes</dt>
          <dd>Includes attributes defined on
              <xmlelement>include</xmlelement> and its specializations:
              <xmlatt>encoding</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>parse</xmlatt>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="linkatts">
          <dt>Link-relationship attributes</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="link-relationship-attr">This group includes attributes
              whose values can be used for representing navigational
              relationships: <xmlatt>format</xmlatt>,
              <xmlatt>href</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>type</xmlatt>, and
                <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt>.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="simpletableatts">
          <dt>Simple table attributes</dt>
          <dd>
            <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein"
              time="29 December 2021" audience="spec-editors">
              <p>If I have jumped to this place in a document from the
                element-reference topic, I want the attributes listed here
                in the "Simple table group" to be hyperlinked to the actual
                definition.</p>
            </draft-comment>
            <p id="simpletable-attr">This group includes attributes that
              are defined only on the <xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement>
              element: <xmlatt>keycol</xmlatt> and
                <xmlatt>relcolwidth</xmlatt>. These attributes are listed
              in a group because the <xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement>
              element is frequently used as a specialization base.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="otheratts">
          <dt>Other attributes (not in a group)</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="other-attr">These are attributes that are used in the
              same way on more than one base element, but they are not
              formally grouped together: <xmlatt>compact</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>duplicates</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>otherrole</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>role</xmlatt>, and <xmlatt>title-role</xmlatt>.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section id="definitions">
      <title>Common attribute definitions</title>
      <p>Common attributes, including those in the groups listed above, are defined as follows.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="align">
          <dt id="attr-align"><xmlatt>align</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(complex table
              attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the <ph rev="review-e">horizontal</ph> alignment of
            text in table <ph rev="review-e">entries</ph>. The following
            values are valid: <dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>left </dt>
                <dd>Indicates left alignment of the text. </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>right </dt>
                <dd>Indicates right alignment of the text. </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>center </dt>
                <dd>Indicates center alignment of the text. </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>justify </dt>
                <dd>Justifies the contents to both the left and the right.
                </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>char </dt>
                <dd>Indicates character alignment. The text is aligned with
                  the first occurrence of the character specified by the
                    <xmlatt>char</xmlatt> attribute.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditauseconref"
                platform="dita">
                <dt>-dita-use-conref-target </dt>
                <dd> </dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl><p>The <xmlatt>align</xmlatt> attribute is available on
              the following table elements:
                <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement>,
                <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement>, and
                <xmlelement>tgroup</xmlelement>.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="cascade" platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-cascade"><xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt><ph
              otherprops="attr-list-label"> (common map
            attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>Specifies how metadata attributes cascade within a map. The
              specification defines the following values:</p>
            <dl conkeyref="reuse-general/cascade-values">
              <dlentry>
                <dt/>
                <dd/>
              </dlentry>
            </dl>
            <p conkeyref="reuse-attributes/custom-attr-tokens"/>
            <p>See <xref
                href="../../archSpec/base/cascading-in-a-ditamap.dita"/>
              for more information about how this attribute interacts with
              metadata attributes.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="char">
          <dt id="attr-char"><xmlatt>char</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(complex table
              attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the alignment character, which is the character
            that is used for aligning the text in table entries. This
            attribute applies when <codeph>align="char"</codeph>. A value
            of &quot;&quot; (the null string) means there is no aligning
              character.<!--<p>Default source for <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement> elements starting in this column. If character alignment is specified, the value is the single alignment character source for any implied <xmlatt>char</xmlatt> values for entry immediately in this column. </p>--><p>For
              example, if <codeph>align="char"</codeph> and
                <codeph>char="."</codeph> are specified, then text in the
              table entry aligns with the first occurrence of the period
              within the entry. This might be useful if decimal alignment
              is required.</p><p>The <xmlatt>char</xmlatt> attribute is
              available on the following table elements:
                <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement> and
                <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement>.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="charoff">
          <dt id="attr-charoff"><xmlatt>charoff</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(complex table
              attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the horizontal offset of the alignment character
              <ph rev="review-e">that is specified by the
                <xmlatt>char</xmlatt> attribute</ph>. The value is a
            greater-than-zero number that is less than or equal to 100. It
            represents the percentage of the current column width by which
            the text is offset to the left of the alignment
              character.<!--<p>Default source for <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement> elements starting in this column. For character alignment on an entry in the column, horizontal character offset is the percent of the current column width to the left of the (left edge of the) alignment character. </p>--><p>For
              example, if <codeph>align="char"</codeph>,
                <codeph>char="."</codeph>, and
                <codeph>charoff="50"</codeph> are all specified, then text
              in the table entry is aligned 50% of the distance to the left
              of the first occurrence of the period character within the
              table entry.</p><p>The <xmlatt>charoff</xmlatt> attribute is
              available on the following table elements:
                <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement> and
                <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement>.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="chunk" platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-chunk"><xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(common map
            attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies how a processor should render a map or branch of a
            map. <ph otherprops="examples">For example, it can be used to
              specify that individual topic documents should be rendered as
              a single document, or that a single document with multiple
              topics should be rendered as multiple documents.</ph><p>The
              following values are valid:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>combine</dt>
                  <dd><ph conkeyref="reuse-general/definitionChunkCombine"
                    /></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>split</dt>
                  <dd><ph conkeyref="reuse-general/definitionChunkSplit"
                    /></dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl></p><p conkeyref="reuse-attributes/custom-attr-tokens"
              /><p>For a detailed description of the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt>
              attribute and its usage, see <xref
                href="../../archSpec/base/chunking.dita"/>.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="collection-type" platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-collection-type"><xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(common map
            attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies how topics or links relate to each other. The
            processing default is <keyword>unordered</keyword>, although no
            default is specified in the OASIS-provided grammar files. The
            following values are valid:<dl id="colltypevalues">
              <dlentry>
                <dt>unordered </dt>
                <dd>Indicates that the order of the child topics is not
                  significant. </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>sequence </dt>
                <dd>Indicates that the order of the child topics is
                  significant. Output processors will typically link
                  between them in order. </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>choice </dt>
                <dd>Indicates that one of the children should be
                  selected.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>family </dt>
                <dd>Indicates a tight grouping in which each of the
                  referenced topics not only relates to the current topic
                  but also relate to each other. <draft-comment
                    author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="28 September 2022">
                    <p>Here is the content from the "DITA map attributes"
                      topic:</p>
                    <dl>
                      <dlentry>
                        <dt><xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt>
                        </dt>
                        <dd>The <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> attribute
                          specifies how the children of a
                            <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element
                          relate to their parent and to each other. This
                          attribute, which is set on the parent element,
                          typically is used by processors to determine how
                          to generate navigation links in the rendered
                          topics. For example, a
                            <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> value of
                          "sequence" indicates that children of the
                          specifying <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
                          element represent an ordered sequence of topics;
                          processors might add numbers to the list of child
                          topics or generate next/previous links for online
                          presentation. This attribute is available in
                          topics on the <xmlelement>linklist</xmlelement>
                          and <xmlelement>linkpool</xmlelement> elements,
                          where it has the same behavior. Where the
                            <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> attribute is
                          available on elements that cannot directly
                          contain elements, the behavior of the attribute
                          is undefined. </dd>
                      </dlentry>
                    </dl>
                  </draft-comment><draft-comment
                    author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="28 September 2022">
                    <p>In the definitions of the supported values, do we
                      want to refer to "resources" instead of "topics"?
                      Since we specify that
                        <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> specifies "how
                      topics <b>or links</b> relate to each other" ...</p>
                  </draft-comment></dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="colsep">
          <dt id="attr-colsep"><xmlatt>colsep</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(complex table
              attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies whether to render column separators between table
            entries. The following values are valid: <keyword>0</keyword>
            <ph rev="review-e">(</ph>no separators) and
              <keyword>1</keyword> (separators). <p>The
                <xmlatt>colsep</xmlatt> attribute is available on the
              following table elements: <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement>,
                <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement>,
                <xmlelement>table</xmlelement>, and
                <xmlelement>tgroup</xmlelement>.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="compact" platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-compact"><xmlatt>compact</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies whether the vertical spacing between list items is
            tightened. The following values are valid:
              <keyword>yes</keyword>, <keyword>no</keyword>, and
              <keyword>-dita-use-conref-target</keyword>. Some DITA
            processors or output formats might not support the
              <xmlatt>compact</xmlatt> attribute. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="datatype" platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-datatype"><xmlatt>datatype</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(data-element
            attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the type of data contained in the <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> attribute or within
            the <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> element. A typical use of <xmlatt>datatype</xmlatt>
            will be the identifying URI for an XML Schema datatype. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="DITAArchVersion" platform="dita lwdita">
          <dt id="attr-DITAArchVersion"><xmlatt>DITAArchVersion</xmlatt><ph
              otherprops="attr-list-label"> (architectural
            attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the version of the DITA architecture that is in
            use. This attribute is in the namespace
              <xmlnsname>http://dita.​oasis-open.​org/​architecture/​2005/</xmlnsname>.
            This attribute is specified in the topic and map modules, and
            it uses a default value of the current version of DITA. The
            current default is <keyword>2.0</keyword>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="duplicates" platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-duplicates"><xmlatt>duplicates</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies whether duplicate links are removed from a group of
            links. Duplicate links are links that address the same resource
            using the same properties, such as link text and link role. How
            duplicate links are determined is processor-specific. The
            following values are valid:<dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>yes</dt>
                <dd>Specifies that duplicate links are retained.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>no</dt>
                <dd>Specifies that duplicate links are removed.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditauseconref"
                platform="dita">
                <dt> </dt>
                <dd> </dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl><p>The suggested processing default is
                <keyword>yes</keyword> within
                <xmlelement>linklist</xmlelement> elements and
                <keyword>no</keyword> for other links.</p><draft-comment
              author="robander" time="Dec 28 2021">"How duplicate links are
              determined is processor-specific" ==> this should be included
              in any updates to standardize language around "implementation
              dependent".</draft-comment></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="encoding">
          <dt id="attr-encoding"><xmlatt>encoding</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(inclusion
            attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd><draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="29 April 2019"
              audience="spec-editors">
              <p>Can we replace "should" in the following definition?</p>
            </draft-comment>Specifies the character encoding to use when translating the character
            data from the referenced content. The value should be a valid encoding name. If not
            specified, processors may make attempts to automatically determine the correct encoding,
            for example using HTTP headers, through analysis of the binary structure of the
            referenced data, or the <xmlpi>xml</xmlpi> processing instruction when including XML as
            text. The resource should be treated as UTF-8 if no other encoding information can be
              determined.<p>When <codeph>parse="xml"</codeph>, standard XML parsing rules apply for
              the detection of character encoding. The necessity and uses of
                <xmlatt>encoding</xmlatt> for non-standard values of <xmlatt>parse</xmlatt> are
              implementation-dependent.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="expanse">
          <dt id="attr-expanse"><xmlatt>expanse</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(display attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the horizontal placement of the element. The
            following values are valid: <dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><keyword>column</keyword></dt>
                <dd>Indicates that the element is aligned with the current
                  column margin.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><keyword>page</keyword></dt>
                <dd>Indicates that the element is placed on the left page
                  margin for left-to-right presentation or the right page
                  margin for right-to-left presentation.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><keyword>spread</keyword></dt>
                <dd>Indicates that the object is rendered across a
                  multi-page spread. If the output format does not have
                  anything that corresponds to spreads, then
                    <keyword>spread</keyword> has the same meaning as
                    <keyword>page</keyword>.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><keyword>textline</keyword></dt>
                <dd><ph rev="review-e">Indicates</ph> that the element is
                  aligned with the left (for left-to-right presentation) or
                  right (for right-to-left presentation) margin of the
                  current text line and takes indentation into
                  account.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditauseconref"
                platform="dita">
                <dt> </dt>
                <dd> </dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl><p conkeyref="reuse-general/pgwide-explain"
              platform="dita"/><p>Some processors or output formats might
              not support all
            values.</p><!--<draft-comment author="robander" audience="spec-editors">This statement seems to get wrapped up in the "implementation dependent" discussion. Also note that "spread" already says "if possible" which also means that support can vary - we can probably remove "if possible" there, it seems redundant with this statement?<p>Same statement is repeated for @frame below.</p></draft-comment>--></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="expiry">
          <dt id="attr-expiry"><xmlatt>expiry</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(date attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the date when the information should be retired or
            refreshed. <ph conkeyref="reuse-general/dateformat"/></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="format">
          <dt id="attr-format"><xmlatt>format</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(link-relationship
              attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the format of the resource that is referenced.<ph
              platform="dita"> See <xref keyref="attributes-format"/> for
              detailed information on supported values and processing
              implications.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="frame">
          <dt id="attr-frame"><xmlatt>frame</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(display attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies which portion of a border surrounds the element.
            The following values are valid: <!--<draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="29 December 2021" audience="spec-editors"><p>The descriptions seem ... off, as a description to a rendering engine. How do we usually describe attribute values? How about, as an example, for <keyword>bottom</keyword>, "A line is rendered below the element"? How is @frame (or its equivalent) described in other specs? I looked briefly at CSS details and tried to search on XSL spec ...</p><p>Per <xref href="https://www.w3.org/TR/xsl11/#border" format="html" scope="external"/>, maybe we should use "A line is rendered at the bottom of the element." The spec uses the words "top, bottom, left, and right" to describe the borders of a box.</p><p>I've added new descriptions of the values, but commented the old ones out in case you did not like this change.</p></draft-comment>--><dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>all </dt>
                <dd>Indicates that a line is rendered at the top, bottom,
                  left, and right of the containing element.</dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl><dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>bottom </dt>
                <dd>Indicates that a line is rendered at the bottom of the
                  containing element.</dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl><dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>none </dt>
                <dd>Indicates that no lines are rendered.</dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl><dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>sides </dt>
                <dd>Indicates that a line is rendered at the left and right
                  of the containing element.</dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl><dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>top </dt>
                <dd>Indicates that a line is rendered at the top of the
                  containing element.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><keyword>topbot</keyword>
                </dt>
                <dd>Indicates that a line is rendered at the top and bottom
                  of the containing element.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditauseconref"
                platform="dita">
                <dt> </dt>
                <dd> </dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl><p>Some processors or output formats might not support all
              values.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="golive">
          <dt id="attr-golive"><xmlatt>golive</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(date attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the publication or general availability (GA) date.
              <ph conkeyref="reuse-general/dateformat"/></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="href">
          <dt id="attr-href"><xmlatt>href</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(link-relationship
              attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies a reference to a resource.<ph platform="dita"> See
                <xref keyref="attributes-href"/> for detailed information
              on supported values and processing implications.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="keycol">
          <dt id="attr-keycol"><xmlatt>keycol</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(simpletable
            attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph rev="review-e">Specifies the column that contains the
              content that represents the key to the tabular
            structure</ph>. If <xmlatt>keycol</xmlatt> is present and
            assigned a numerical value, the specified column is treated as
            a vertical header.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="keyref">
          <dt id="attr-keyref"><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd id="def-keyref"><ph id="keyrefDescription">Specifies a key
              name that acts as a redirectable reference based on a key
              definition within a map.<ph platform="dita"> See <xref
                  keyref="attributes-keyref"/> for information on using
                this attribute.</ph></ph><draft-comment author="robander"
              >The definiton above for @keyref should be synchronized with
              the definition in the linked section on
            keys.</draft-comment></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry platform="dita lwdita" id="keys">
          <dt id="attr-keys"><xmlatt>keys</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies one or more names for a resource.<ph
              platform="dita"> See <xref keyref="attributes-keys"/> for
              information on using this attribute.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="keyscope" platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-keyscope"><xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(common map
            attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies that the element marks the boundaries of a key
            scope. <p>See <xref keyref="attributes-keyscope"/> for
              information on using this attribute.</p><draft-comment
              author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="28 September 2022">
              <p>Here is the content from the "DITA map attributes"
                topic:</p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt></dt>
                  <dd>Defines a new scope for key definition and
                    resolution, and gives the scope one or more names. For
                    more information about key scopes, see <xref
                      href="../../archSpec/base/key-based-addressing.dita"
                    />.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </draft-comment></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="linking" platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-linking"><xmlatt>linking</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(common map
            attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies linking characteristics of a topic specific to the
            location of this reference in a map. <ph
              conkeyref="reuse-attributes/inherit-in-map"/>
            <draft-comment author="robander" time="Dec 28 2021">The text
              below matches <xref
                href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dita/v1.3/errata02/os/complete/part3-all-inclusive/langRef/attributes/commonMapAttributes.html#topicref-atts__linking"
                format="html" scope="external">1.3 spec text</xref> but I'm
              nervous about "cannot link" type definition. It's describing
              how to generate links based on the current context in the map
              - it's not describing what the topic itself is allowed to
              link to, which is how I interpret "can".</draft-comment>The
            following values are valid:<dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><keyword>targetonly</keyword></dt>
                <dd>A topic can only be linked to and cannot link to other
                  topics.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><keyword>sourceonly</keyword></dt>
                <dd>A topic cannot be linked to but can link to other
                  topics.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>normal </dt>
                <dd>A topic can be linked to and can link to other topics.
                  Use this to override the linking value of a parent topic.
                </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>none </dt>
                <dd>A topic cannot be linked to or link to other
                  topics.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditauseconref">
                <dt> </dt>
                <dd> </dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl><draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein"
              time="28 September 2022">
              <p>Here is the content from the "DITA map attributes"
                topic:</p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><xmlatt>linking</xmlatt></dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>By default, the relationships between the topics
                      that are referenced in a map are reciprocal:</p>
                    <ul>
                      <li>Child topics link to parent topics and vice
                        versa. </li>
                      <li>Next and previous topics in a sequence link to
                        each other. </li>
                      <li>Topics in a family link to their sibling topics. </li>
                      <li>Topics referenced in the table cells of the same
                        row in a relationship table link to each other. A
                        topic referenced within a table cell does not (by
                        default) link to other topics referenced in the
                        same table cell. </li>
                    </ul>
                    <p>This behavior can be modified by using the
                        <xmlatt>linking</xmlatt> attribute, which enables
                      an author or information architect to specify how a
                      topic participates in a relationship. The following
                      values are valid:</p>
                    <dl>
                      <dlentry>
                        <dt><codeph>linking="none"</codeph>
                        </dt>
                        <dd>Specifies that the topic does not exist in the
                          map for the purposes of calculating links. </dd>
                      </dlentry>
                      <dlentry>
                        <dt><codeph>linking="sourceonly"</codeph>
                        </dt>
                        <dd>Specifies that the topic will link to its
                          related topics but not vice versa. </dd>
                      </dlentry>
                      <dlentry>
                        <dt><codeph>linking="targetonly"</codeph>
                        </dt>
                        <dd>Specifies that the related topics will link to
                          it but not vice versa. </dd>
                      </dlentry>
                      <dlentry>
                        <dt><codeph>linking="normal"</codeph>
                        </dt>
                        <dd>Default value. It specifies that linking will
                          be reciprocal (the topic will link to related
                          topics, and they will link back to it). </dd>
                      </dlentry>
                    </dl>
                    <p>Authors also can create links directly in a topic by
                      using the <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> or
                        <xmlelement>link</xmlelement> elements, but in most
                      cases map-based linking is preferable, because links
                      in topics create dependencies between topics that can
                      hinder reuse. </p>
                    <p>Note that while the relationships between the topics
                      that are referenced in a map are reciprocal, the
                      relationships merely <i>imply</i> reciprocal links in
                      generated output that includes links. The rendered
                      navigation links are a function of the presentation
                      style that is determined by the processor. </p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </draft-comment></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="name" platform="dita lwdita">
          <dt id="attr-name"><xmlatt>name</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(data-element
            attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Defines a unique name for the object.<draft-comment
              author="robander" audience="spec-editors">Do we need to
              specify the scope of "unique" here?</draft-comment></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="otherrole">
          <dt id="attr-otherrole"><xmlatt>otherrole</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies an alternate role for a link relationship when the
              <xmlatt>role</xmlatt> attribute is set to
              <keyword>other</keyword>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="parse">
          <dt id="attr-parse"><xmlatt>parse</xmlatt> (inclusion attributes)</dt>
          <dd>Specifies the processing expectations for the referenced resource. Processors must
            support the following values:<dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><keyword>text</keyword></dt>
                <dd>
                  <p>The contents should be treated as plain text. Reserved XML characters should be
                    displayed, and not interpreted as XML markup.</p>
                </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><keyword>xml</keyword></dt>
                <dd>
                  <p>The contents of the referenced resource should be treated as an XML document,
                    and the referenced element should be inserted at the location of the
                      <xmlelement>include</xmlelement> element. If a fragment identifier is included
                    in the address of the content, processors must select the element with the
                    specified ID. If no fragment identifier is included, the root element of the
                    referenced XML document is selected. Any grammar processing should be performed
                    during resolution, such that default attribute values are explicitly populated.
                    Prolog content must be discarded.</p>
                  <p>It is an error to use <codeph>parse="xml"</codeph> anywhere other than within
                      <xmlelement>foreign</xmlelement> or a specialization thereof.</p>
                </dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl><p>Processors may support other values for the <xmlatt>parse</xmlatt> attribute
              with proprietary processing semantics. Processors should issue warnings and use
                <xmlelement>fallback</xmlelement> when they encounter unsupported
                <xmlatt>parse</xmlatt> values. Non-standard <xmlatt>parse</xmlatt> instructions
              should be expressed as URIs.</p><note>Proprietary <xmlatt>parse</xmlatt> values will
              likely limit the portability and interoperability of DITA content, so should be used
              with care.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="processing-role">
          <dt id="attr-processing-role"><xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(common map
            attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd id="def-processing-role">Specifies whether the referenced
            resource is processed normally or treated as a resource that is
            only included in order to resolve references, such as key or
            content references. The following values are valid:<dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>normal </dt>
                <dd>Indicates that the resource is a readable part of the
                  information. This is the processing default.</dd>
                <dd>Indicates that the resource is a readable part of the
                  information set. It is included in navigation and search
                  results. This is the default value for the
                    <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>resource-only </dt>
                <dd>Indicates that the resource should be used only for
                  processing purposes. It is not included in navigation or
                  search results, nor is it rendered as a topic. This is
                  the default value for the <xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement>
                  element. </dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl><dl>
              <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditauseconref"
                platform="dita">
                <dt> </dt>
                <dd> </dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl><p><ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/may-inherit"/></p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="relcolwidth">
          <dt id="attr-relcolwidth"><xmlatt>relcolwidth</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(simpletable
            attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the width of each column in relationship to the
            width of the other columns. The value is a space-separated list
            of relative column widths. Each column width is specified as a
            positive integer or decimal number followed by an asterisk
            character. <p otherprops="examples">For example, the value
                <codeph>relcolwidth="1* 2* 3*"</codeph> gives a total of 6
              units across three columns. The relative widths are 1/6, 2/6,
              and 3/6 (16.7%, 33.3%, and 50%). Similarly, the value
                <codeph>relcolwidth="90* 150*"</codeph> causes relative
              widths of 90/240 and 150/240 (37.5% and 62.5%).</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="role" platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-role"><xmlatt>role</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the role that a linked topic plays in relationship
            with the current topic. <p otherprops="examples">For example,
              in a parent/child relationship, the role would be
                <keyword>parent</keyword> when the target is the parent of
              the current topic, and <keyword>child</keyword> when the
              target is the child of the current topic. This can be used to
              sort and classify links when rendering.</p><p>The following
              values are valid:</p><dl id="linkrolevalues">
              <dlentry>
                <dt>ancestor</dt>
                <dd>Indicates a link to a topic above the parent
                  topic.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>child</dt>
                <dd>Indicates a link to a direct child such as a directly
                  nested or dependent topic.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>cousin</dt>
                <dd>Indicates a link to another topic in the same hierarchy
                  that is not a parent, child, sibling, next, or
                  previous.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>descendant</dt>
                <dd>Indicates a link to a topic below a child topic.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>friend</dt>
                <dd>Indicates a link to a similar topic that is not
                  necessarily part of the same hierarchy.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>next</dt>
                <dd>Indicates a link to the next topic in a sequence.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>other</dt>
                <dd>Indicates any other kind of relationship or role. The
                  type of role is specified as the value for the
                    <xmlatt>otherrole</xmlatt> attribute.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>parent</dt>
                <dd>Indicates a link to a topic that is a parent of the
                  current topic.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>previous</dt>
                <dd>Indicates a link to the previous topic in a
                  sequence.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>sibling</dt>
                <dd>Indicates a link between two children of the same
                  parent topic.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditauseconref">
                <dt> </dt>
                <dd> </dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="rowheader">
          <dt id="attr-rowheader"><xmlatt>rowheader</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(complex table
              attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies whether the entries in the respective column are
            row headers. The following values are valid: <dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><keyword>firstcol</keyword></dt>
                <dd>Indicates that entries in the first column of the table
                  are row headers. This applies when the
                    <xmlatt>rowheader</xmlatt> attribute is specified on
                  the <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> element.</dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl><dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><keyword>headers</keyword></dt>
                <dd>Indicates that entries of the column that is described
                  using the <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement> element are
                  row headers. This applies when the
                    <xmlatt>rowheader</xmlatt> attribute is specified on
                  the <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement> element.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><keyword>norowheader</keyword></dt>
                <dd>Indicates that entries in the first column are not row
                  headers. This applies when the <xmlatt>rowheader</xmlatt>
                  attribute is specified on the
                    <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> element.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditauseconref"
                platform="dita">
                <dt/>
                <dd/>
              </dlentry>
            </dl><note>This attribute is not part of the OASIS Exchange
              Table Model upon which DITA tables are based. Some processors
              or output formats might not support all values. </note><p>The
                <xmlatt>rowheader</xmlatt> attribute is available on the
              following table elements: <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> and
                <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement>.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="rowsep">
          <dt id="attr-rowsep"><xmlatt>rowsep</xmlatt><ph
              otherprops="attr-list-label"> (complex table
            attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies whether to render row separators between table
            entries. The following values are valid: <keyword>0</keyword>
            (no separators) and <keyword>1</keyword> (separators).<p>The
                <xmlatt>rowsep</xmlatt> attribute is available on the
              following table elements: <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement>,
                <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement>,
                <xmlelement>row</xmlelement>,
                <xmlelement>table</xmlelement>, and
                <xmlelement>tgroup</xmlelement>.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="scale">
          <dt id="attr-scale"><xmlatt>scale</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(display attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the percentage by which fonts are resized in
            relation to the normal text size. The value of this attribute
            is a positive integer. <ph platform="dita">When used on
                <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> or
                <xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement>, the following values
              are valid: <keyword>50</keyword>, <keyword>60</keyword>,
                <keyword>70</keyword>, <keyword>80</keyword>,
                <keyword>90</keyword>, <keyword>100</keyword>,
                <keyword>110</keyword>, <keyword>120</keyword>,
                <keyword>140</keyword>, <keyword>160</keyword>,
                <keyword>180</keyword>, <keyword>200</keyword>, and <xref
                keyref="attributes-useconreftarget"
                >-dita-use-conref-target</xref>. </ph><ph platform="lwdita"
              >The following values are valid: <keyword>50</keyword>,
                <keyword>60</keyword>, <keyword>70</keyword>,
                <keyword>80</keyword>, <keyword>90</keyword>,
                <keyword>100</keyword>, <keyword>110</keyword>,
                <keyword>120</keyword>, <keyword>140</keyword>,
                <keyword>160</keyword>, <keyword>180</keyword>, and
                <keyword>200</keyword>. </ph><p>This attribute is primarily
              useful for print-oriented display. Some processors might not
              support all values.</p><p>If the <xmlatt>scale</xmlatt>
              attribute is specified on an element that contains an image,
              the image is not scaled. The image is scaled <b>only</b> if a
              scaling property is explicitly specified for the
                <xmlelement>image</xmlelement>
            element.</p><!--<draft-comment author="robander" time="Dec 28 2021">Just noting that we seem to repeat ourselves here, saying this is 1) primarily for print-oriented, 2) primarily for print accommodation, and 3) some processors (implementations) might not support all values. Also feels really odd to say it's "an acknowledged style-based property", I think we can just delete that sentence? It doesn't add anything except to suggest we might be embarassed to have this attribute?</draft-comment>--><!--<draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="29 December 2021"><p>I've made some edits, including some that I think eliminated the repetition.</p><p>Is <xmlatt>scale</xmlatt> used on elements other than fig, simpletable, and table? Note that we do not mention <xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement> above ...</p><p>Maybe the paragraph about image should be moved to the <xmlelement>image</xmlelement> topic? Or covered in the topics for elements that support <xmlatt>scale</xmlatt>?</p><p>Do we need to discuss processing expectations about scaling elsewhere? It's buried here. Putting it in a more prominent place might improve the likelihood that processors would support it.</p><p>Based on a quick test, DITA-OT PDF: <ul><li>Supports <xmlatt>scale</xmlatt> on table but not <xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement></li><li>Scales the image contained in a table when the <xmlatt>scale</xmlatt> attribute is set</li></ul> .</p></draft-comment>--></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="scope">
          <dt id="attr-scope"><xmlatt>scope</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(link-relationship
              attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the closeness of the relationship between the
            current document and the referenced resource.<ph
              platform="dita"> The following values are valid:
                <keyword>local</keyword>, <keyword>peer</keyword>,
                <keyword>external</keyword>, and
                <keyword>-dita-use-conref-target</keyword>. </ph><ph
              platform="lwdita"> The following values are valid:
                <keyword>local</keyword>, <keyword>peer</keyword>, and
                <keyword>external</keyword>.</ph><p platform="dita">See
                <xref keyref="attributes-scope"/> for detailed information
              on supported values and processing implications.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="search" platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-search"><xmlatt>search</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(common map
            attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies whether the target is available for searching. <ph
              conkeyref="reuse-attributes/inherit-in-map"/> The following
            values are valid: <keyword>yes</keyword>,
            <keyword>no</keyword>, and
              <keyword>-dita-use-conref-target</keyword>.<draft-comment
              author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="28 September 2022">
              <p>Here is the content from the "DITA map attributes"
                topic:</p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><xmlatt>search</xmlatt>
                  </dt>
                  <dd> Specifies whether the topic is included in search
                    indexes. </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </draft-comment></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="specializations" platform="dita lwdita">
          <dt id="attr-specializations"><xmlatt>specializations</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(architectural
              attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the attribute-domain specializations that are
            included in the document-type shell. This attribute is set as a
            default within the document-type shell. The value varies
            depending on what domains are integrated into the document-type
            shell. <ph otherprops="examples" platform="dita">For example, a
              grammar file that includes the specialized attributes
                <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>,
              and <xmlatt>newBaseAtt</xmlatt> would set the value to
                <codeph>@props/audience @props/deliveryTarget
                @base/newBaseAtt</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="subjectrefs" platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-subjectrefs"><xmlatt>subjectrefs</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(common map
            attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies one or more keys that are each defined by a subject
            definition in a subject scheme map. Multiple values are
            separated by white space.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="title-role">
          <dt id="attr-title-role"><xmlatt>title-role</xmlatt>
            <ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/required-attr"/></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the role that the alternative title serves.
            Multiple roles are separated by white space. The following
            roles are defined in the specification:
              <keyword>linking</keyword>, <keyword>navigation</keyword>,
              <keyword>search</keyword>, <keyword>subtitle</keyword>, and
              <keyword>hint</keyword>.<p>Processors can define custom
              values for the <xmlatt>title-role</xmlatt>
            attribute.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="toc" platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-toc"><xmlatt>toc</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(common map
            attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies whether a topic appears in the table of contents
            (TOC) based on the current map context. <ph
              conkeyref="reuse-attributes/inherit-in-map"/> The following
            values are valid:<dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>yes </dt>
                <dd>The topic appears in a generated TOC.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>no </dt>
                <dd>The topic does not appear in a generated TOC.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>-dita-use-conref-target </dt>
                <dd>See <xref keyref="attributes-useconreftarget"/> for
                  more information. </dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl><draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein"
              time="28 September 2022">
              <p>Here is the content from the "DITA map attributes"
                topic:</p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><xmlatt>toc</xmlatt></dt>
                  <dd>Specifies whether topics are excluded from navigation
                    output, such as a Web site map or an online table of
                    contents. By default, <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
                    hierarchies are included in navigation output;
                    relationship tables are excluded. </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </draft-comment></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="type" platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-type"><xmlatt>type</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(link-relationship
              attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Describes the target of a reference. See <xref keyref="attributes-type"/> for detailed
            information on supported values and processing implications. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="value" platform="dita lwdita">
          <dt id="attr-value"><xmlatt>value</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(data-element
            attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies a value associated with the current property or
            element. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="valign">
          <dt id="attr-valign"><xmlatt>valign</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(complex table
              attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the vertical alignment of text in table <ph
              rev="review-e">entries</ph>. The following values are valid: <dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>bottom </dt>
                <dd>Indicates that text is aligned with the bottom of the
                  table entry. </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>middle </dt>
                <dd>Indicates that text is aligned with the middle of the
                  table entry. </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>top </dt>
                <dd>Indicates that text is aligned with the top of the
                  table entry. </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditauseconref" platform="dita">
                <dt>-dita-use-conref-target </dt>
                <dd> </dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl><p>The <xmlatt>valign</xmlatt> attribute is available on
              the following table elements: <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement>,
                <xmlelement>tbody</xmlelement>,
                <xmlelement>thead</xmlelement>, and
                <xmlelement>row</xmlelement>.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="xmlspace">
          <dt id="attr-xmlspace"><xmlatt>xml:space</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd id="def-xmlspace">Specifies how to handle white space in the
            current element.<ph platform="dita"> This attribute is provided
              on <xmlelement>pre</xmlelement>,
                <xmlelement>lines</xmlelement>, and on elements specialized
              from those.</ph> It ensures that parsers respect white space
            that is part of the data in those elements, including line-end
            characters. When defined, it has a fixed value of
              <keyword>preserve</keyword>, making it a default property of
            the element that cannot be changed or deleted by authors.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="xmlnsditaarch" platform="dita lwdita">
          <dt id="attr-xmlns-ditaarch"><xmlatt>xmlns:ditaarch</xmlatt>
            <ph otherprops="attr-list-label">(architectural
              attributes)</ph></dt>
          <dd>Declares the default DITA namespace. This namespace is
            declared as such in the RNG modules for
              <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> and
              <xmlelement>map</xmlelement>, but it is specified as an
            attribute in the equivalent DTD-based modules. The value is
            fixed to
              <keyword>http://dita.​oasis-open.​org/​architecture/​2005/</keyword>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
