<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="global-atts" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>Debug attribute group</title>
 <shortdesc>The debug attributes group includes a set of debugging attributes that are normally
  hidden from authoring view. These attributes are defined for every DITA element.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>Debug attribute group</indexterm>
    <indexterm>Commonly referenced attribute descriptions<indexterm>Debug
     attributes</indexterm></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <refbody>
  <section id="section-1">
   <p>These attributes are intended to store debugging information during intermediate processing.
    One possible implementation is to use <xmlatt>xtrf</xmlatt> (xml-trace-filename) to store the
    original source file name through intermediate processing steps, and use <xmlatt>xtrc</xmlatt> (
    xml-trace-counter) to store an element counter for repositioning authoring tools at the
    originating element location. If values are assigned in this way in the first stage of a
    processing stream, values in these attributes can then be used for error recovery.</p>
   <note >While this group of attributes is defined with the "Universal attribute
    group" within the specification, OASIS implementations of the DITA vocabulary do not currently
    group it with the common "univ-atts" attributes group.</note>
  </section>
  <section id="authoring">
   <p>These attributes are normally hidden from authors and exposed only to processing tools or
        editor macros. Values used in these attributes <ph rev="public-review-1">might</ph> be
        implementation-dependent.</p>
  </section>
  <!--xsection conref="DitabaseNav.dita#commonCMdefs/global-atts-contains"/-->
  <!--xsection conref="DitabaseNav.dita#commonCMdefs/global-atts-containedby"/-->
  <section id="section-2">
   <dl>
    <!--<dlhead conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/attributeDlhead"><dthd/><ddhd/></dlhead>-->
    <dlentry id="xtrf">
     <dt><xmlatt>xtrf</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd><indexterm>xtrf
       attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>xtrf</indexterm></indexterm>xml-trace-filename,
      the original filename.
      <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="xtrc">
     <dt><xmlatt>xtrc</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd><indexterm>xtrc
       attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>xtrc</indexterm></indexterm>xml-trace-counter,
      an element counter for repositioning editors at a known edit location.
      <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </section>
 </refbody>
</reference>

