<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="display-atts" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>Display attribute group</title>
 <shortdesc>The display attribute group includes attributes whose values <ph rev="public-review-1"
   >can</ph> be used for affecting the display of many elements.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>Display attribute group</indexterm>
    <indexterm>Commonly referenced attribute descriptions<indexterm>Display
     attributes</indexterm></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <refbody>
  <section id="section-1">
   <dl>
    <!--<dlhead conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/attributeDlhead"><dthd/><ddhd/></dlhead>-->
    <dlentry id="expanse">
     <dt><xmlatt>expanse</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd><indexterm>expanse
       attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>expanse</indexterm></indexterm>Determines
      the horizontal placement of the element. Allowable values are: <dl>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>page </dt>
        <dd>Places the element on the left page margin for left-to-right presentation, or right page
         margin for right-to-left presentation. </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>column </dt>
        <dd>Aligns the element with the current column margin </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>textline </dt>
        <dd>Aligns the element with the left (for left to right presentation) or right (for right to
         left presentation) margin of the current text line and takes indention into account. </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>spread </dt>
        <dd>Indicates that, if possible, the object should be rendered across a multi-page spread.
         If the rendition target does not have anything corresponding to spreads then spread has the
         same meaning as "page". </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/ditauseconref">
        <dt> </dt>
        <dd> </dd>
       </dlentry>
      </dl><p conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/pgwide-explain"/><p>Some DITA
       processors or output formats <ph rev="public-review-1">might</ph> not be able to support all
       values. </p></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="frame">
     <dt><xmlatt>frame</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd><indexterm>frame
       attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>frame</indexterm></indexterm>Specifies
      which portion of a border should surround the element. Allowable values are: <dl>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>top </dt>
        <dd>Draw a line before the element </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>bottom </dt>
        <dd>Draw a line after the element </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>topbot </dt>
        <dd>Draw a line both before and after the element </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>all </dt>
        <dd>Draw a box around the element </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>sides </dt>
        <dd>Draw a line at each side of the element </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>none </dt>
        <dd>Don&apos;t draw any lines around this element </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/ditauseconref">
        <dt> </dt>
        <dd> </dd>
       </dlentry>
      </dl><p>Some DITA processors or output formats <ph rev="public-review-1">might</ph> not be
       able to support all values. </p></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="scale">
     <dt><xmlatt>scale</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd><indexterm>scale
       attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>scale</indexterm></indexterm>Specifies a
      percentage, selected from an enumerated list, that is used to resize fonts in relation to the
      normal text size. <ph>This attribute is primarily useful for print-oriented display.</ph>
      <p>The <xmlatt>scale</xmlatt> attribute provides an acknowledged style-based property directly
       on DITA elements. For the <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>fig</xmlelement>
       elements, the intent of the property is to allow authors to adjust font sizes on the content
       of the containing element, primarily for print accommodation. An
        <xmlelement>image</xmlelement> in these contexts is to be scaled only by its own direct
       scale property. If not specifically scaled, such an <xmlelement>image</xmlelement> is
       unchanged by the scale property of its parent <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> or
        <xmlelement>fig</xmlelement>. </p><p>Allowable values are 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 110, 120,
       140, 160, 180, 200, and <xref href="ditauseconreftarget.dita">-dita-use-conref-target</xref>.
       Some DITA processors or output formats <ph rev="public-review-1">might</ph> not be able to
       support all values. </p></dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </section>
 </refbody>
</reference>

