<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="id-atts" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>ID attribute group</title>
 <shortdesc>The ID attribute group includes attributes that enable the naming and referencing of
  elements in topics and maps.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>ID attribute group</indexterm>
    <indexterm>Commonly referenced attribute descriptions<indexterm>ID attributes</indexterm>
    </indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <refbody>
  <section id="section-1">
   <dl>
        <dlentry id="conaction" platform="dita">
          <dt><xmlatt>conaction</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>This attribute enables users to push content into a new location. Allowable values are
              <keyword>mark</keyword>, <keyword>pushafter</keyword>, <keyword>pushbefore</keyword>,
              <keyword>pushreplace</keyword>, and <keyword>-dita-use-conref-target</keyword>. See
              <xref keyref="attributes-conaction"/> for examples and details about the syntax.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="conkeyref" platform="dita">
          <dt><xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Allows the conref feature to operate using a key instead of a URI. See <xref
              keyref="attributes-conkeyref"/> for more details about the syntax and behaviors.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="conref">
          <dt><xmlatt>conref</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>This attribute is used to reference an ID on content that can be reused. See <xref
              keyref="attributes-conref"/> for examples and details about the syntax. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="conrefend" platform="dita">
          <dt><xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>The <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> attribute is used when reusing a range of elements
            through <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>. The syntax is the same as for the
              <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute; see <xref keyref="attributes-conrefend"/> for
            examples. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="id">
          <dt><xmlatt>id</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>An anchor point. This ID is the target for references by <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> and
              <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attributes and for external applications that refer to DITA
            content. This attribute is defined with the XML data type NMTOKEN, except where noted
            for specific elements within the language reference. See <xref
              href="../../archSpec/base/id.dita"/> for more details.</dd>
        </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </section>
 </refbody>
</reference>

