<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="include-element-atts" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Inclusion element attributes</title>
<shortdesc>The inclusion element attributes include attributes that are defined for the
<xmlelement>include</xmlelement> element, and are expected to be reused on specializations of the
<xmlelement>include</xmlelement> element.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>include element attributes</indexterm>
<indexterm>attribute groups<indexterm>include element</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="section-1">
<dl>
<dlentry id="parse">
<dt><xmlatt>parse</xmlatt></dt>
<dd>Specifies the processing expectations for the referenced resource. Processors must support the
following values:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt><keyword>text</keyword></dt>
<dd>
<p>The contents should be treated as plain text. Reserved XML characters should be displayed, and
not interpreted as XML markup.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><keyword>xml</keyword></dt>
<dd>
<p>The contents of the referenced resource should be treated as an XML document, and the referenced
element should be inserted at the location of the <xmlelement>include</xmlelement> element. If a
fragment identifier is included in the address of the content, processors must select the element
with the specified ID. If no fragment identifier is included, the root element of the referenced XML
document is selected. Any grammar processing should be performed during resolution, such that
default attribute values are explicitly populated. Prolog content must be discarded.</p>
<p>It is an error to use <codeph>parse="xml"</codeph> anywhere other than within
<xmlelement>foreign</xmlelement> or a specialization thereof.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><p>Processors may support other values for the <xmlatt>parse</xmlatt> attribute with
proprietary processing semantics. Processors should issue warnings and use
<xmlelement>fallback</xmlelement> when they encounter unsupported <xmlatt>parse</xmlatt> values.
Non-standard <xmlatt>parse</xmlatt> instructions should be expressed as URIs.</p><note>Proprietary
<xmlatt>parse</xmlatt> values will likely limit the portability and interoperability of DITA
content, so should be used with care.</note></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry id="encoding">
<dt><xmlatt>encoding</xmlatt></dt>
<dd><draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="29 April 2019" audience="spec-editors">
<p>Can we replace "should" in the following definition?</p>
</draft-comment>Specifies the character encoding to use when translating the character data from the
referenced content. The value should be a valid encoding name. If not specified, processors may make
attempts to automatically determine the correct encoding, for example using HTTP headers, through
analysis of the binary structure of the referenced data, or the <xmlpi>xml</xmlpi> processing
instruction when including XML as text. The resource should be treated as UTF-8 if no other encoding
information can be determined.<p>When <codeph>parse="xml"</codeph>, standard XML parsing rules apply
for the detection of character encoding. The necessity and uses of <xmlatt>encoding</xmlatt> for
non-standard values of <xmlatt>parse</xmlatt> are implementation-dependent.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
