<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="relational-atts" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Link-relationship attribute group</title>
<shortdesc>The link relationship attribute group includes attributes whose values can be used for
    representing navigational relationships. These attributes occur only on elements that represent
    relationships among DITA elements or between DITA elements and non-DITA resources.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>Link relationship attribute group</indexterm><indexterm>Commonly referenced attribute descriptions<indexterm>Link relationships</indexterm>
    </indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="section-1">
   <dl>
        <!--<dlhead conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/attributeDlhead"><dthd/><ddhd/></dlhead>-->
        <dlentry id="href">
          <dt><xmlatt>href</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd><indexterm>href
              attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>href</indexterm></indexterm>Provides
            a reference to a resource. See <xref keyref="attributes-href"/> for detailed
            information on supported values and processing implications..
            <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
        </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="format">
     <dt><xmlatt>format</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd><indexterm>format
              attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>format</indexterm></indexterm>The
              <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute identifies the format of the resource being
     referenced. See <xref keyref="attributes-format"/> for details on supported values.
            <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="scope">
     <dt><xmlatt>scope</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd><indexterm>scope
              attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>scope</indexterm></indexterm>The
              <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> attribute identifies the closeness of the relationship between
            the current document and the target resource. Allowable values are local, peer,
            external, and -dita-use-conref-target; see <xref keyref="attributes-scope"/> for
            more information on these values.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="type">
     <dt><xmlatt>type</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd><indexterm>type
              attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>type</indexterm></indexterm>Describes
     the target of a reference. See <xref keyref="attributes-type"/> for detailed
            information on supported values and processing implications.
            <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
