<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="localization-atts" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Localization attribute group</title>
<shortdesc>The localization attribute group defines a set of common attributes that are related to
    translation and localization. These attributes are available on most DITA elements.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>Localization attribute group</indexterm><indexterm>Commonly
referenced attribute descriptions<indexterm>localization-atts</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="section-1">       
   <dl>
        <dlentry id="dir">
          <dt><xmlatt>dir</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the directionality of text: left-to-right (<keyword>ltr</keyword>, the
            processing default) or right-to-left (<keyword>rtl</keyword>). The value
              <keyword>lro</keyword> indicates an override of normal bidi text presentation, forcing
            the element into left-to-right mode; <keyword>rlo</keyword> overrides normal rules to
            force right-to-left presentation. Allowable values are <keyword>ltr</keyword>,
              <keyword>rtl</keyword>, <keyword>lro</keyword>, <keyword>rlo</keyword>, and
              <keyword>-dita-use-conref-target</keyword>. See <xref
              href="../../archSpec/base/diratt.dita"/> for more information.</dd>
        </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="translate">
     <dt><xmlatt>translate</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd>Indicates whether the content of the element should be translated or not. Allowable values
            are <keyword>yes</keyword>, <keyword>no</keyword>, and
              <keyword>-dita-use-conref-target</keyword>. See <xref
              href="../../non-normative/elementsMerged.dita"/> for suggested processing defaults for
            each element.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="xml-lang">
     <dt><xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd>Specifies the language of the element content. The <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute and
            its values are described in the XML Recommendation at <xref format="html"
              scope="external" href="http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-lang-tag"
              >http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-lang-tag</xref>. Allowable values are language
            tokens or the null string.</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>     </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <p>The <xmlatt>translate</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt>, and <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt>
        attributes identify language-specific words or phrases for specific processing (or
        non-processing, in the case of <codeph>translate=&quot;no&quot;</codeph>).</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;p&gt;The cordial response to the question is 
&lt;q translate=&quot;no&quot; xml:lang=&quot;de-de&quot; dir=&quot;ltr&quot;&gt;Nein.&lt;/q&gt;&lt;/p&gt;</codeblock>
    </example>
</refbody>
</reference>
