<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference
  id="select-atts"
  xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Metadata attribute group</title>
  <shortdesc>The metadata attribute group includes common metadata attributes, several of which
    support conditional processing (filtering and flagging) or the creation of new attribute domain
    specializations.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>metadata attribute group</indexterm>
        <indexterm>attribute groups<indexterm>metadata</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="specializeable">
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="base" platform="dita">
          <dt><xmlatt>base</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>A generic attribute that has no specific purpose. It is intended to act as a base for
            specialized attributes that have a simple value syntax like the conditional processing
            attributes (one or more alphanumeric values separated by whitespace), but is not itself
            a filtering or flagging attribute. </dd>
          <dd>The <xmlatt>base</xmlatt> attribute takes a space-delimited set of values. However,
            when acting as a container for generalized attributes, the attribute values will be more
            complex; see <xref href="../../archSpec/base/generalization-attributes.dita"/> for more
            details.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="props">
          <dt><xmlatt>props</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Root attribute from which new metadata attributes can be specialized. <ph
              conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/propertyvalueattr"/>
            <ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/may-inherit"/>
          </dd>
          <dd>The <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attribute takes a space-delimited set of values. However,
            when acting as a container for generalized attributes, the attribute values will be more
            complex; see <xref href="../../archSpec/base/generalization-attributes.dita"/> for more
            details.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section id="specialized" platform="dita">
      <p>The attributes <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>,
          <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>product</xmlatt>, and <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt> are
        specialized from the <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attribute. They are defined in independent
        attribute extension domains, and integrated by default into all OASIS-provided document-type
        shells. If any of these domains is not integrated into a given document-type shell, the
        relevant attribute(s) will not be available.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="audience">
          <dt><xmlatt>audience</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Indicates the intended audience for the element. <ph
              conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/may-inherit"/>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="deliveryTarget">
          <dt><xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd><ph conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/deliveryTarget-simpleDefinition"/>
            <ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/may-inherit"/></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="otherprops">
          <dt><xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>This attribute can be used for any other properties that might be needed to describe
            an audience, or to provide selection criteria for the element. Alternatively, the
              <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attribute <ph>can</ph> be specialized to provide a new metadata
            attribute instead of using the general <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt> attribute. <ph
              conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/may-inherit"/>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="platform">
          <dt><xmlatt>platform</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Indicates operating system and hardware. <ph
              conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/may-inherit"/>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="product">
          <dt><xmlatt>product</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Contains the name of the product to which the element applies. <ph
              conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/may-inherit"/>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section><section id="othermetaattributes" platform="dita">
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="importance">
          <dt><xmlatt>importance</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>A range of values that describe an importance or priority attributed to an element.
            For example, in steps of a task, the attribute indicates whether a step is optional or
            required. This attribute is not used for DITAVAL-based filtering or flagging;
            applications <ph>might</ph> use the importance value to highlight elements. Allowable
            values are: obsolete, deprecated, optional, default, low, normal, high, recommended,
            required, urgent, and -dita-use-conref-target. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="rev">
          <dt><xmlatt>rev</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Indicates a revision level of an element that identifies when the element was added or
            modified. It can be used to flag outputs when it matches a run-time parameter; it cannot
            be used for filtering. It is not sufficient to be used for version control. <ph
              conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/may-inherit"/>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="status">
          <dt><xmlatt>status</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>The modification status of the current element. Allowable values are:
              <keyword>new</keyword>, <keyword>changed</keyword>, <keyword>deleted</keyword>,
              <keyword>unchanged</keyword>, and <keyword>-dita-use-conref-target</keyword>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
