<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="theconkeyrefattribute" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>The <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attribute</title>
  <shortdesc>The <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attribute provides an indirect content reference to
    topic elements, map elements, or elements within maps or topics. When the DITA content is
    processed, the key references are resolved using key definitions from DITA maps.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
    <section id="section-1">
      <p>For content references from map elements to map elements or topic elements to topic
        elements, the value of the <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attribute is a key name, where the key
        must be bound to a map element (for references from map elements) or a topic element (for
        references from topic elements). For all other elements, the value of the
          <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attribute is a key name, an optional <ph 
          >slash</ph> ("/"), and the ID of the target element, where the key name must be bound to
        the map or topic that contains the topic element. </p>
      <p>When the key name specified by the <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attribute is not defined and
        the element also specifies a <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute, the <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>
        attribute is used to determine the content reference relationship. If no
          <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute is specified there is no content reference relationship.
        Processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> issue a warning when
        a <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> reference cannot be resolved and there is no
          <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute to use as a fallback. Processors <term 
          outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> issue a warning when a <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> cannot
        be resolved to an element and a specified <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> is used as a fallback.</p>
      <p>The <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> attribute, which defines the end of a conref range, <ph
          >cannot</ph> include a key. Instead the map or topic element
        addressed by the key name component of the <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> is used in place of
        whatever map or topic element is addressed by the <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> attribute. See
          <xref href="theconrefendattribute.dita#theconrefendattribute/conkeyref"/> for more
        information and for examples of this behavior.</p>
    </section>
</refbody>
</reference>
