<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="thehrefattribute" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>The <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute</title>
 <shortdesc>The <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute is used to reference another DITA topic or map,  a
  specific element inside a DITA topic or map, an external Web page, or another non-DITA
  resource.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>href attribute</indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <refbody>
  <section id="section-1">
   <p>The value of a DITA <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute must be a valid URI reference [<xref
     format="txt" href="http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3986.txt" scope="external">RFC 3986</xref>]. It
    is an error if the value is not a valid URI reference. An implementation <term
     outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> generate an error message; it <term
     outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> recover from this error condition by
    attempting to convert the value to a valid URI reference. Note that the path separator character
    in a URI is the forward slash (<q>/</q>); the backward slash character (<q>\</q>) is not permitted
    unescaped within URIs.</p>
   <p>When an <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute references a DITA resource, an <xmlatt>href</xmlatt>
    value that consists of a URI without a fragment identifier resolves to the document element in
    the referenced document. For the purposes of rendering, such as when a
     <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> reference to a DITA document is used to render the content as
    HTML, this means that all topics (and topic specializations) in the target document are included
    in the reference. For the purpose of linking, the reference resolves to the first (or only)
    topic (or topic specialization) in the document.
    <!--If the reference is from a topicref element or a topicref element
specialization, all topics (and topic specializations) in the document
are referenced. If the reference is not from a topicref element or
a topicref element specialization, the reference resolves to the first
(or only) topic (or topic specialization) in the document.--></p>
   <p>An <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> value that consists of a URI with a fragment identifier must have a
    DITA local identifier as the portion after the hash. A DITA local identifier consists of
      <codeph><varname>topicID</varname>/<varname>elementID</varname></codeph> for a subelement of a
    topic, and of <varname>elementID</varname> for topics, maps, and subelements of a map. <ph
     >If the topic referenced by a DITA local identifier is for the same
     topic, then <varname>topicID</varname> can be replaced by a period; see <xref
      href="../../archSpec/base/handling-xref-and-conref-within-topics.dita#handling-xref-and-conref-within-topics"
     /> for more information on how this syntax relates to conref resolution.</ph></p>
   <p>Note that certain characters - including but not limited to the hash sign ("#"), question mark
    ("?"), back slash ("\"), and space - are not permitted unescaped within URIs. Such characters
    must be percent-encoded. Also note that the ampersand ("&amp;") and less than (<q>&lt;</q>)
    characters are not permitted in XML attribute values; they must be represented by appropriate
    character or entity references. Some tools might perform this encoding automatically, while
    other tools might require that users either avoid the special characters or manually insert the
    encoding.</p>
  </section>
  <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
   <title>Example: Common syntax for the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute</title>
   <p>The following table includes some examples of common <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> syntax. Note that
    these examples represent only a few common scenarios and are not all inclusive.</p>
   <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 3.0*">
    <sthead>
     <stentry>Target</stentry>
     <stentry>Syntax</stentry>
    </sthead>
    <strow>
     <stentry>The first topic in a DITA document</stentry>
     <stentry><codeph>href="file.dita"</codeph></stentry>
    </strow>
    <strow>
     <stentry>A specific topic in a DITA document</stentry>
     <stentry><codeph>href="file.dita#<varname>topicid</varname>"</codeph></stentry>
    </strow>
    <strow>
     <stentry>A non-topic element inside a DITA topic</stentry>
     <stentry><codeph>href="#<varname>topicid</varname>/<varname>elementid</varname>"</codeph></stentry>
    </strow>
    <strow >
     <stentry>A non-topic element inside the same DITA topic as the reference</stentry>
     <stentry><codeph>href="#./<varname>elementid</varname>"</codeph></stentry>
    </strow>
    <strow>
     <stentry>An element in a DITA map</stentry>
     <stentry><codeph>href="myMap.ditamap#<varname>map-branch</varname>"</codeph></stentry>
    </strow>
    <strow>
     <stentry>An image</stentry>
     <stentry><codeph>href="exampleImage.jpg"</codeph></stentry>
    </strow>
    <strow>
     <stentry>An external resource</stentry>
     <stentry><codeph>href="http://www.example.org"</codeph></stentry>
    </strow>
   </simpletable>
   <p>where:</p>
   <ul>
    <li><varname>topicid</varname> is the value of the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute on the DITA
     topic.</li>
    <li><varname>elementid</varname> is the value of the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute on the
     (non-topic) DITA element.</li>
    <li><varname>map-branch</varname> is the value of the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute on the DITA
     map element.</li>
   </ul>
  </example>
 </refbody>
</reference>

