<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="theroleattribute" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>The <xmlatt>role</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>otherrole</xmlatt> attributes</title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlatt>role</xmlatt> attribute defines the role the target topic plays in
        relationship with the current topic. For example, in a parent/child relationship, the role
        would be "parent" when the target is the parent of the current topic, and "child" when the
        target is the child of the current topic. This structure could be used to sort and classify
        links at display time. </shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>attributes,
                    complex<indexterm><xmlatt>otherrole</xmlatt></indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>attributes,
                    complex<indexterm><xmlatt>role</xmlatt></indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="section-1"><title>Supported values for <xmlatt>role</xmlatt></title><p>Allowable values for the <xmlatt>role</xmlatt> attribute are:</p><dl><dlentry>
<dt>parent</dt>
<dd>Indicates a link to a topic that is a parent of the current topic.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>child</dt>
<dd>Indicates a link to a direct child such as a directly nested or
dependent topic.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>sibling</dt>
<dd>Iindicates a link between two children of the same parent topic.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>friend</dt>
<dd>Indicates a link to a similar topic that is not necessarily part
of the same hierarchy.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>next</dt>
<dd>Indicates a link to the next topic in a sequence.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>previous</dt>
<dd>Indicates a link to the previous topic in a sequence.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>cousin</dt>
<dd>Indicates a link to another topic in the same hierarchy that is
not a parent, child, sibling, next, or previous.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>ancestor</dt>
<dd>Indicates a link to a topic above the parent topic.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>descendant</dt>
<dd>Indicates a link to a topic below a child topic.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>other</dt>
<dd>Indicates any other kind of relationship or role. Enter that role as the value for the
                            <xmlatt>otherrole</xmlatt> attribute.</dd>
</dlentry>
                <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/ditauseconref">
                    <dt> </dt>
                    <dd> </dd>
                </dlentry></dl>
   <p >The <xmlatt>otherrole</xmlatt> attribute is available to specify an alternate
                role that is not available in the list above, and should be used in conjunction with
                    <codeph>role="other"</codeph>.</p></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
