<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="thescopeattribute" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>The <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> attribute</title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> attribute identifies the closeness of the relationship between
        the current document and the target resource.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
<section id="section-1"><ul>
<li>Set <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> to "local" when the resource is part of the current set of
                    content.</li>
<li>Set <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> to "peer" when the resource is part of the current set of content but
                    might not accessible at build time, or for maps to be treated as root maps for
                    the purpose of creating map-to-map key references (peer maps). An implementation
                    might open such resources in the same browser window to distinguish them from
                    those with <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> set to "external".</li>
<li>Set <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> to "external" when the resource is not part of the current
                    information set and should open in a new browser window.</li>
<li>See <xref keyref="attributes-useconreftarget"></xref> for more information
on -dita-use-conref-target.</li>
</ul><p ><ph
                    conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/may-inherit"/> The
                processing default is determined by the value of the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt>
                attribute. In most cases, the processing default is "local". However the processing
                default is "external" whenever the absolute URI in the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt>
                attribute begins with one of the following schemes:</p>
    <ul >
                <li>http</li>
                <li>https</li>
                <li>ftp</li>
                <li>mailto</li>
            </ul>
    <p>Processors <ph >can</ph> consider additional URI schemes as "external"
                by default<!--, but must not consider all absolute URIs as "external" by default-->.
                Processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> always consider relative URIs as
                "local" by default.</p></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
