<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="topicref-element-atts" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Topicref element attributes group</title>
  <shortdesc>The topicref element attributes group includes attributes that are defined for the
      <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element, and are reused on most or all specializations of
    the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Topicref element attribute group</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Commonly referenced attribute descriptions<indexterm>Topicref element attributes
            group</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="section-1">
      <dl>
        <!--<dlhead conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/attributeDlhead"><dthd/><ddhd/></dlhead>-->
        <dlentry id="copy-to">
          <dt><xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd><!--Updated based on TC meeting 1 April 2014, to allow references to non DITA, but disallow non local.--><indexterm>copy-to
              attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>copy-to</indexterm></indexterm>Use
            the <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute on the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element
            to provide a different resource name for a particular instance of a resource referenced
            by the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> (for example, to separate out the different
            versions of the topic, rather than combining them on output). <ph>If applicable, the
                <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> value <ph >can</ph> include path
              information.</ph> The links and navigation associated with that instance will point to
            a copy of the topic with the file name you specified. <ph>Applications <term
                outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> support <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> for references to
              local non-DITA resources. The <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute is not supported for
              references to resources where the effective value for <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> is "peer"
              or "external".</ph>
            <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--><p>Use
              the <xmlelement>linktext</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> in the
                <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>'s <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> to provide a
              unique name and short description for the new copy. </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="navtitle">
          <dt><xmlatt>navtitle</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd><indexterm>navtitle
                attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>navtitle</indexterm></indexterm>Specifies
            the title of the topic as it will appear in the navigation or tables of contents that
            are generated from the map. Beginning with DITA 1.2, the preferred way to specify the
            navigation title in a map is with the <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> element,
            available inside the <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element.
            <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="query">
          <dt><xmlatt>query</xmlatt>
            <ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/deprecated-attr"/></dt>
          <dd><indexterm>query
                attribute</indexterm><indexterm>Attributes<indexterm>query</indexterm></indexterm>This
            attribute is deprecated. It <ph >might</ph> be removed in the future.<?datatype CDATA?><?default #IMPLIED?>
            <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>

