<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="univ-atts" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Universal attribute group</title>
  <shortdesc>The universal attribute group defines a set of common
    attributes that are available on almost every DITA element. The
    universal attribute group includes all attributes from the ID,
    localization, and metadata attribute groups, plus the
      <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt>
      attributes.<draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="29 December 2021">
      <p>This is something wrong with the organizational structure of this
        topic ... Look at it in outline form, and check that the sections,
        titles, and content all make logical sense with the topic title of
        "Universal attribute group".</p>
    </draft-comment></shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>universal attribute group</indexterm>
        <indexterm>attribute groups<indexterm>universal</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="summary">
      <title>Common attribute groups</title>
      <p>The following attribute groups are referenced in this
        specification. They are also used in the grammar files when the
        element attributes are defined.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="universalatts">
          <dt>Universal attributes</dt>
          <dd>Includes <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> and
              <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt>, along with every attribute in
            the ID,localization, and metadata attribute groups.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="idatts">
          <dt>ID attributes</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="id-attr">This group includes the attributes that enable
              the naming and referencing of elements:
                <xmlatt>conaction</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt>, and
                <xmlatt>id</xmlatt>.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="localizationatts">
          <dt>Localization attributes</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="localization-attr">This group includes attributes that
              are related to translation and localization:
                <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>translate</xmlatt>, and
                <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt>.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="metadataatts">
          <dt>Metadata attributes</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="metadata-attr"><draft-comment
                author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="31 December 2021">
                <p>Why do we need to mention that two attributes are
                  available for specialization here? I think it makes the
                  paragraph hard to read.</p>
              </draft-comment>This group includes common metadata
              attributes, two of which are available for specialization:
                <xmlatt>base</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>importance</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>props</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>rev</xmlatt>, and
                <xmlatt>status</xmlatt>.</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p id="specializations-of-props">The base DITA vocabulary from
              OASIS includes several specializations of
                <xmlatt>props</xmlatt>: <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>, and
                <xmlatt>product</xmlatt>. These attributes are defined as
              attribute-extension domains. By default, they are integrated
              into all OASIS-provided document-type shells, but they can be
              made unavailable by implementing custom document-type
              shells.</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="29 December 2021">
              <p>Why do we provide information about specialization and
                custom document-type shells here? I think that information
                could be removed.</p>
            </draft-comment>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section id="definitions">
      <title>Universal attribute definitions</title>
      <p>The universal attributes for OASIS DITA elements are defined below. Specialized attributes,
        which are part of the OASIS distribution but are only available when explicitly included in
        a shell, are noted in the list.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="audience">
          <dt id="attr-audience"><xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>
            <i>(specialized attribute)</i></dt>
          <dd>Indicates the intended audience for the element. <ph
              conkeyref="reuse-attributes/may-inherit"/>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="base" platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-base"><xmlatt>base</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies metadata about the current element. It is often
            used as a base for specialized attributes that have a simple
            syntax for values but are not filtering or flagging
              attributes.<p>The <xmlatt>base</xmlatt> attribute takes a
              space-delimited set of values. However, when serving as a
              container for generalized attributes, the attribute values
              will be more complex. See <xref
                href="../../archSpec/base/generalization-attributes.dita"/>
              for more details.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="class">
          <dt id="attr-class"><xmlatt>class</xmlatt>
            <i>(not for use by authors)</i></dt>
          <dd id="reusable-class"><i>This attribute is not for use by authors. If an editor displays
                <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute values, do not edit them.</i> Specifies a default
            value that defines the specialization ancestry of the element. Its predefined values
            allow DITA <ph platform="lwdita">and XDITA</ph> tools to work correctly with specialized
            elements. <ph platform="dita">In a generalized DITA document the <xmlatt>class</xmlatt>
              attribute value in the generalized instance might differ from the default value for
              the <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute for the element as given in the DTD or schema.
              See <xref href="../../archSpec/base/specialization-class-attribute.dita"/> for more
              information. This attribute is specified on every element except for the
                <xmlelement>dita</xmlelement> container element.</ph> It is always specified with a
            default value, which varies for each element.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="conaction" platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-conaction"><xmlatt>conaction</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies how the element content will be pushed into a new
            location. The following values are valid:<dl
              id="conactionvalues">
              <dlentry>
                <dt>mark</dt>
                <dd>The element acts as a marker when pushing content
                  before or after the target, to help ensure that the push
                  action is valid. The element with
                    <codeph>conaction="mark"</codeph> also specifies the
                  target of the push action with <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>.
                  Content inside of the element with
                    <codeph>conaction="mark"</codeph> is not pushed to the
                  new location.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>pushafter</dt>
                <dd>Content from this element is pushed after the location
                  specified by <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> on the element with
                    <codeph>conaction="mark"</codeph>. The element with
                    <codeph>conaction="pushafter"</codeph> is the first
                  sibling element after the element with
                    <codeph>conaction="mark"</codeph>.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>pushbefore</dt>
                <dd>Content from this element is pushed before the location
                  specified by <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> on the element with
                    <codeph>conaction="mark"</codeph>. The element with
                    <codeph>conaction="pushbefore"</codeph> is the first
                  sibling element before the element with
                    <codeph>conaction="mark"</codeph>.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>pushreplace</dt>
                <dd>Content from this element replaces any content from the
                  element referenced by the <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>
                  attribute. A second element with
                    <codeph>conaction="mark"</codeph> is not used when
                  using <codeph>conaction="pushreplace"</codeph>.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditauseconref">
                <dt/>
                <dd/>
              </dlentry>
            </dl><p>See <xref keyref="attributes-conaction"/> for examples
              and details about the syntax.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="conkeyref" platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-conkeyref"><xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies a key name or a key name with an element ID that
            acts as an indirect reference to reusable content. The
            referenced content is used in place of the content of the
            current element. See <xref keyref="attributes-conkeyref"/> for
            more details about the syntax and behaviors.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="conref">
          <dt id="attr-conref"><xmlatt>conref</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd id="reusable-conref">Specifies a URI that references a DITA
            element. The referenced content is used in place of the content
            of the current element. See <xref keyref="attributes-conref"/>
            for examples and details about the syntax. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="conrefend" platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-conrefend"><xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies a URI that references the last element in a
            sequence of elements, with the first element of the sequence
            specified by <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>. The referenced sequence
            of elements is used in place of the content of the current
            element. See <xref keyref="attributes-conrefend"/> for examples
            and details about the syntax. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="deliveryTarget">
          <dt id="attr-deliveryTarget"><xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>
            <i>(specialized attribute)</i></dt>
          <dd><ph conkeyref="reuse-general/deliveryTarget-simpleDefinition"/>
            <ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/may-inherit"/></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dir">
          <dt id="attr-dir"><xmlatt>dir</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd id="reusable-dir">Specifies the directionality of text. The
            following values are valid:<dl id="dirvalues">
              <dlentry>
                <dt>lro</dt>
                <dd>Indicates an override of normal bidirectional text
                  presentation, forcing the element into left-to-right
                  mode.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>ltr</dt>
                <dd>Left to right (the processing default).</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>rlo</dt>
                <dd>Indicates an override of normal bidirectional text
                  presentation, forcing the element into right-to-left
                  mode.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>rtl</dt>
                <dd>Right to left.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditauseconref">
                <dt/>
                <dd/>
              </dlentry>
            </dl><p>See <xref href="../../archSpec/base/diratt.dita"/> for
              more information.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="id">
          <dt id="attr-id"><xmlatt>id</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd id="reusable-id">Specifies an identifier for the current element. This ID is the
            target for references by <ph platform="dita"><xmlatt>href</xmlatt> and
                <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt></ph>
            <ph platform="lwdita"><b>href</b> and <b>conref</b></ph> attributes and for external
            applications that refer to DITA <ph platform="lwdita">or LwDITA</ph> content. This
            attribute is defined with the XML data type NMTOKEN, except where noted for specific
            elements within the language reference. See <xref href="../../archSpec/base/id.dita"/>
            for more details.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="importance">
          <dt id="attr-importance"><xmlatt>importance</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the importance or priority that is assigned to an
            element. The following values are valid:
              <keyword>default</keyword>, <keyword>deprecated</keyword>,
              <keyword>high</keyword>, <keyword>low</keyword>,
              <keyword>normal</keyword>, <keyword>obsolete</keyword>,
              <keyword>optional</keyword>, <keyword>recommended</keyword>,
              <keyword>required</keyword>, <keyword>urgent</keyword>, and
              <keyword>-dita-use-conref-target</keyword>. This attribute is
            not used for DITAVAL-based filtering or flagging, although
            applications might use the importance value to highlight
            elements. <ph otherprops="examples">For example, in steps of a
              task, the value of the <xmlatt>importance</xmlatt> attribute
              indicates whether a step is optional or required.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="otherprops">
          <dt id="attr-otherprops"><xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt>
            <i>(specialized attribute)</i></dt>
          <dd>Specifies a property or properties that provide selection
            criteria for the element. Alternatively, the
              <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attribute can be specialized to
            provide a new metadata attribute instead of using the general
              <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt> attribute. <ph
              conkeyref="reuse-attributes/may-inherit"/>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="outputclass">
          <dt id="attr-outputclass"><xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies a role that the element is playing. The role must be consistent with the
            basic semantic and expectations for the element. In particular, the
              <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> attribute can be used for styling during output
            processing; HTML output will typically preserve <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> for CSS
              processing.<draft-comment author="robander" audience="spec-editors">I don't like "The
              role must be consistent...", that seems like best practice that cannot be normative –
              and I could easily say outputclass="flashy" which makes my element show up with
              sparkles, and has nothing to do with "the basic semantic and expectations for the
              element".</draft-comment></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="platform">
          <dt id="attr-platform"><xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>
            <i>(specialized attribute)</i></dt>
          <dd>Indicates operating system and hardware. <ph
              conkeyref="reuse-attributes/may-inherit"/>
            <draft-comment author="robander" audience="spec-editors">I
              think this could specify a platform that is not an operating
              system or hardware, right? The current definition explicitly
              limits platform to those two … maybe "Specifies a platform or
              platforms to which the element applies, such as the operating
              system or hardware relevant to a task."</draft-comment></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="product">
          <dt id="attr-product"><xmlatt>product</xmlatt>
            <i>(specialized attribute)</i></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the name of the product to which the element
            applies. <ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/may-inherit"/>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="props">
          <dt id="attr-props"><xmlatt>props</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies metadata about the current element. New attributes
            can be specialized from the <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attribute.
              <ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/propertyvalueattr"/>
            <ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/may-inherit"/>
            <p>The <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attribute takes a space-delimited
              set of values. However, when acting as a container for
              generalized attributes, the attribute values will be more
              complex; see <xref
                href="../../archSpec/base/generalization-attributes.dita"/>
              for more details.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="rev">
          <dt id="attr-rev"><xmlatt>rev</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies a revision level of an element that identifies when
            the element was added or modified. It can be used to flag
            outputs when it matches a run-time parameter. It cannot be used
            for filtering nor is it sufficient to be used for version
            control. <ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/may-inherit"/>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="status">
          <dt id="attr-status"><xmlatt>status</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies modification status of the current element. The following values are valid:
              <keyword>new</keyword>, <keyword>changed</keyword>, <keyword>deleted</keyword>,
              <keyword>unchanged</keyword>, and <keyword>-dita-use-conref-target</keyword>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="translate">
          <dt id="attr-translate"><xmlatt>translate</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd><draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="31 December 2021">
              <p>Does <xref href="../../non-normative/elementsMerged.dita"/> really provide suggested processing defaults for each
                element? I thought it covered whether an element was block
                or in-line and whether there were considerations that
                translators needed to be aware of.</p>
            </draft-comment>Specifies whether the content of the element
            should be translated. The following values are valid:
              <keyword>yes</keyword>, <keyword>no</keyword>, and
              <keyword>-dita-use-conref-target</keyword>. See <xref href="../../non-normative/elementsMerged.dita"/> for
            suggested processing defaults for each element.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="xml-lang">
          <dt id="attr-xml-lang"><xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd id="reusable-lang">Specifies the language of the content
            contained in an element. The following values are valid:
            language tokens or the null string. The
              <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute and its values are
            described in the <xref format="html" scope="external"
              href="http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-lang-tag">Extensible
              Markup Language 1.0 specification, fifth edition</xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
