<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="example">
    <title>Example</title>
    <shortdesc>This section should be titled either "Example" or
    "Examples," depending on how many examples the section
    contains.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
    <p>Consider the following guidelines for making the "Example" sections
      consistent across the specification</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Each code sample should be preceded by an explanatory paragraph
        that describes what the example illustrates. A good pattern came
        out of the LWDita work: "The following code sample shows how X does
        Y:" The intro paragraph should end with a colon, unless it is
        followed by another sentence (then use a period).</li>
      <li>The code sample should be indented two spaces. Use bold
        highlighting to call attention to the opening and closing
        tags.</li>
      <li>Code samples should be valid XML that can be copied-and-pasted
        into an editor (in the proper context). If ellipses are used to
        indicate missing information, surround them in an XML comment.</li>
      <li>(For sections with multiple examples) Begin with a paragraph that
        states "This section contains examples of how the
          <xmlatt>elementName</xmlatt> element can be used. Surround each
        introductory paragraph and code sample with a
          <xmlelement>figure</xmlelement> element that has a descriptive
        title.</li>
      <li>(For elements that are part of a larger structure, such as a
        table or definition list entry) Instead of containing an example,
        the section can have a cross reference to another topic. Use the
        following type of markup:
        <codeblock>&lt;p>See &lt;xref keyref="elements-choicetable">&lt;xmlelement>choicetable&lt;/xmlelement>&lt;/xref>.&lt;/p></codeblock></li>
      <li>For examples where you want to show possible rendering, use a
        screen capture with good alternate text. Do not just include
        markup, leaving the rendering up to whatever stylesheets are used
        when output is generated.</li>
      <li>Do your best to replace "faked" examples with content that would
        conceivably be production content.</li>
    </ul>
    </conbody>
</concept>
