<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="processing-expectations">
    <title>Processing expectations</title>
    <shortdesc>Use this section to explain processing expectations for the
    element. In general, processing expectations help enforce consistency
    in how conforming DITA processors work with an element. Implementers
    need to pay special attention to any element that has this section. </shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>Consider the following example from the
        <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> topic:</p>
    <lq>When a <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element occurs in a DITA
      map, it overrides the short description provided in the topic for the
      purpose of generating map-based link previews. It does not replace
      the <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> in the rendered topic itself.
      This means that generated map-based links to this topic will use the
      short description from the map for any link previews provided with
      the link, while the rendered topic continues to use the short
      description inside the topic.</lq>
    <div rev="review-c">
      <p>If the processing expectations for the element are described in an
        architectural topic, link to that content. For example, the
        following paragraph is the sole content of "Processing
        expectations" topic in the <xmlelement>keytext</xmlelement>
        topic:</p>
      <lq>See "Processing key references to generate text or link
        text".</lq>
    </div>
    </conbody>
</concept>
