<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="rendering-expectations">
    <title>Rendering expectations</title>
    <shortdesc>This section explains rendering expectations for an element.
    In general, rendering expectations are about how the content will show
    up "on the glass."</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>Here are some examples from the
        <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> and
        <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement> topics:</p>
    <lq>Processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> render the
      content of the <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element as the
      initial paragraph of the topic.</lq>
    <lq>
      <div platform="dita">
        <p>When used in conjunction with <xmlelement>fig</xmlelement> or
            <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> elements, processors <term
            outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> consider the content of
            <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement> elements to be part of the
          content flow.</p>
        <p>When used in conjunction with <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> or
            <xmlelement>link</xmlelement> elements, processors often render
          the content of <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement> elements as hover
          help or other forms of link preview.</p>
      </div>
    </lq>
    <p>Note that the content in a "Rendering expectations" sections does
      not need to include normative RFC-2119 statements, although they
      often do.</p>
    <p>Be sure to distinguish between rendering and formatting
      expectations; formatting expectations go in a non-normative appendix
      topic.</p>
    <p>One way to distinguish between rendering and formatting is that
      rendering expectations are important for interoperability. For
      example, in certain cases, it is important that rendering
      applications are consistent in choosing what content to display: the
        <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> is rendered, and when an
        <xmlelement>object</xmlelement> cannot be displayed the
        <xmlelement>fallback</xmlelement> is rendered.</p>
    <p>Formatting can vary without impacting the content itself, such as
      how indentation works for <xmlelement>dl</xmlelement> or how a
        <xmlelement>note</xmlelement> element is styled to stand out.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
