<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="rewriting-short-descriptions">
  <title>Rewriting short descriptions</title>
  <shortdesc>Sometimes it's difficult to decide whether a short description
    should use natural language. This topic provides some
    guidance.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <p>Consider the short descriptions for the elements in the programming
      domain. When this domain went to review in January 2023, the short
      descriptions did not implement natural language. The following table
      contains commentary:</p>
    <simpletable relcolwidth="1* 2* 2* 2*">
      <sthead>
        <stentry>Element</stentry>
        <stentry>Original short description</stentry>
        <stentry>Comments</stentry>
        <stentry>Revised short description</stentry>
      </sthead>
      <strow>
        <stentry><xmlelement>apiname</xmlelement></stentry>
        <stentry>The <xmlelement>apiname</xmlelement> element identifies
          the name of an application programming interface (API), such as a
          Java class name or method name.</stentry>
        <stentry>Poor candidate for natural language. A natural-language
          short description wll tend to seem circular.</stentry>
        <stentry/>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry><xmlelement>codeblock</xmlelement></stentry>
        <stentry>The <xmlelement>codeblock</xmlelement> element identifies
          lines of program code.</stentry>
        <stentry>Do not use natural language. A <term>code block</term> has
          a <xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Block_(programming)"
            format="html" scope="external">specific meaning</xref> in
          porgamming that does not match how we use it in DITA.</stentry>
        <stentry/>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry><xmlelement>codeph</xmlelement></stentry>
        <stentry>The <xmlelement>codeph</xmlelement> element identifies a
          code snippet.</stentry>
        <stentry>The current short description is problematic, as the term
            <term>code snippet</term> has a <xref
            href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snippet_(programming)"
            format="html" scope="external">specific meaning</xref> in
          programming that does not match how we use the term in
          DITA.</stentry>
        <stentry>A code phrase is a small portion of source code, machine
          code, or text that is displayed in-line.</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry><xmlelement>coderef</xmlelement></stentry>
        <stentry>The <xmlelement>coderef</xmlelement> element references an
          external file that contains literal code.</stentry>
        <stentry>This is iffy and needs to be approached carefully. The
          short description for <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> should be
          the model for how to recast this in natural language.</stentry>
        <stentry>A code reference is the mechanism for referencing an
          external file that contains literal code.</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry><xmlelement>option</xmlelement></stentry>
        <stentry>The <xmlelement>option</xmlelement> element describes an
          option that can modify a command or a configuration.</stentry>
        <stentry>This is iffy. The term <term>option</term> is too broad to
          use as a natural-language replacement, and <term>command or
            configuration option</term> seems cumbersome. Perhaps
            <term>command-line option</term>? However, that might exclude
          ways in which current DITA users have used
            <xmlelement>option</xmlelement> to describe GUI
          parameters.</stentry>
        <stentry>[?] A command-line option is a command used to pass a
          parameter to a program. These entries, also called command-line
          switches, can pass along cues for changing various settings or
          running commands in an interface.</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry><xmlelement>parname</xmlelement></stentry>
        <stentry>The <xmlelement>parmname</xmlelement> element identifies
          the name of a parameter.</stentry>
        <stentry>Poor candidate for natural language. A natural-language
          short description wll tend to seem circular.</stentry>
        <stentry/>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry><xmlelement>parml</xmlelement></stentry>
        <stentry>The <xmlelement>parml</xmlelement> element identifies a
          specialized definition list that is designed for documenting
          parameters.</stentry>
        <stentry>Good candidate for natural language. It easily can move to
          the format "An item is a …"</stentry>
        <stentry>A parameter list is a specialized definition list that is
          designed for documenting parameters.</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry><xmlelement>plentry</xmlelement></stentry>
        <stentry>The <xmlelement>plentry</xmlelement> element contains one
          or more parameter terms and definitions.</stentry>
        <stentry>Good candidate for natural language. It is a container
          element, and it easily can move to the format "An item contains
          …"</stentry>
        <stentry>A parameter-list entry contains one or more parameter
          terms and definitions.</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry><xmlelement>pd</xmlelement></stentry>
        <stentry>The <xmlelement>pd</xmlelement> element specifies a
          parameter definition within a parameter list entry.</stentry>
        <stentry>This is iffy. We can model if after how we defined
            <xmlelement>dd</xmlelement>, but does that really add
          value?</stentry>
        <stentry>[?] A parameter definition is a definition of a term that
          is defined in a parameter-list entry.</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry><xmlelement>pt</xmlelement></stentry>
        <stentry>The <xmlelement>pt</xmlelement> element specifies a
          parameter term within a parameter list entry.</stentry>
        <stentry>This is iffy. We can model if after how we defined
            <xmlelement>dt</xmlelement>, but does that really add
          value?</stentry>
        <stentry>[?] A parameter term is a term that is defined in a
          parameter-list entry.</stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>
  </conbody>
</concept>
