<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="migrating_from_1.1_to_1.2" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>Migrating from DITA 1.1 to 1.2</title>
 <shortdesc>DITA 1.2 is compatible with prior versions of the DITA specification in that all valid
    DITA 1.0 and 1.1 documents are valid DITA 1.2 documents. However, some changes to existing
    document type shells and specializations might be needed in order to maintain the same behavior
    under DITA 1.2 or to take full advantage of new DITA 1.2 features.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <section id="task-migration">
   <title>Migration of task specializations</title>
   <p>DITA 1.2 relaxes the content model for the <xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement> element in the base <xmlelement>task</xmlelement> topic
    type. Specializations of <xmlelement>task</xmlelement> that use the <xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement> element unchanged or use the
    content-model parameter entities for task body will use the more general DITA 1.2 task model
    when used with the DITA 1.2 task module.</p>
   <p>If a document should use the strict task model instead of the new general task model:<ul>
     <li>Documents that use the task topic type included with the OASIS DITA 1.2 specification
       <b>will not</b> need to migrate. This includes documents that use task inside of the ditabase
      document type included with the DITA 1.2 specification.</li>
     <li>Documents that use the standard task module inside of a new document type shell, or in a
      local ditabase document type, <b>will</b> need to migrate in order to preserve the
      module.</li>
     <li>Documents that use a specialization of task with a specialized element to replace
      <xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement> <b>will not</b> need to migrate. Documents that specialize task but reuse the
      <xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement> element <b>will</b> need to migrate.</li>
    </ul></p>
   <p>For documents that do not use the standard OASIS DITA doctypes for which the strict task model
    from DITA 1.0 and 1.1 is desired, the strict task model can be restored by using the strict
    Taskbody Constraint module, by creating and integrating a constraint module similar to the
    strict Taskbody Constraint, or by adjusting the specialization's content models to impose the
    appropriate constraints.</p>
   <p>To integrate the strict Taskbody Constraint module in a DTD, add the following content
    immediately before the section that imports the "topic.mod" file. The
     <filepath>strictTaskbodyConstraint.mod</filepath> file must be defined in any catalog used to
    locate DTD modules. See the <filepath>task.dtd</filepath> file in the OASIS DITA 1.2 DTD package
    for a
    sample:<codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % strictTaskbody-c-def  
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//ELEMENTS DITA 1.2 Strict Taskbody Constraint//EN" 
  "strictTaskbodyConstraint.mod">
%strictTaskbody-c-def;</codeblock></p>
   <p>To do the same thing for a schema, the <filepath>strictTaskbodyConstraintMod.xsd</filepath>
    file must be defined in the catalog used to resolve the schema using the following URN. The
    <xmlelement>xs:include</xmlelement> element should be placed immediately before the <xmlelement>xs:include</xmlelement> for
     <filepath>topicMod.xsd</filepath>:<codeblock>&lt;xs:include schemaLocation="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:xsd:strictTaskbodyConstraintMod.xsd:1.2" /></codeblock></p>
   <p>Documents which use the task document type from OASIS and wish to make use of the general
    <xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement> model must also be migrated. In this case, the documents must be updated to
    reference the General Task document type instead of the traditional Task document type. For
    DTD-based documents, this means that the document type declaration must change as follows within
    each task
    document:<codeblock>DITA 1.1:
&lt;!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">

DITA 1.2:
&lt;!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA General Task//EN"
 "generalTask.dtd"></codeblock></p>
   
   <p>For Schema based documents, the xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation attribute must change on each
    task element:
    <codeblock>DITA 1.1:
&lt;task xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" 
  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:xsd:task.xsd"

DITA 1.2:
&lt;task xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" 
  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:xsd:generalTask.xsd"</codeblock></p>
  </section>
  <section id="glossary-doctype-shell">
   <title>Use of glossary document type shell and module files</title>
   <p>The files named <filepath>glossary.dtd</filepath>, <filepath>glossary.mod</filepath>, and
     <filepath>glossary.ent</filepath> in DITA 1.1 have been renamed to
     <filepath>glossentry.dtd</filepath>, <filepath>glossentry.mod</filepath>, and
     <filepath>glossentry.ent</filepath> in order to follow the file naming requirements for
    vocabulary modules. The XML Schema files <filepath>glossary.xsd</filepath>,
     <filepath>glossaryGrp.xsd</filepath>, and <filepath>glossaryMod.xsd</filepath> have been
    renamed to <filepath>glossentry.xsd</filepath>, <filepath>glossentryGrp.xsd</filepath>, and
     <filepath>glossentryMod.xsd</filepath>.The DITA 1.2 entity resolution catalogs map the public
    identifiers for the <filepath>glossary.*</filepath> files to the corresponding
     <filepath>glossentry.*</filepath> files and URNs for the <filepath>glossary*.xsd</filepath>
    files to the corresponding <filepath>glossentry*.xsd</filepath> files, meaning that existing
    documents and shell document types that refer to the <filepath>glossary.*</filepath> files will
    continue to work with DITA 1.2.</p>
   <p>However, shell document types that refer to the <filepath>glossary.*</filepath> files should
    be updated to refer to the corresponding <filepath>glossentry.*</filepath> files as it is
    convenient to do so.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="section-1">
   <title>Migration of specializations to reflect new implementation patterns</title>
   <p>DITA 1.2 defines new implementation patterns for specializations. It is not necessary to
    update existing specialization modules to reflect these new patterns. However, specializations
    that want to enable the use of constraint modules must be updated to provide per-element-type
    content model and attribute list parameter entities.</p>
   <p>Existing specializations <ph rev="public-review-1">might</ph> benefit from the new DITA 1.2
        ability to have structural modules that depend on and specialize elements from domains.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="section-2">
   <title>Update of domains attributes for specializations</title>
   <p>In DITA 1.1 the <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> attribute only listed the domains on which a given map or topic type
    depended. In DITA 1.2 the <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> attribute should also list structural modules and constraint
    modules, providing a complete list of the vocabulary modules that a given map or topic type
    depends on in the context of a given DITA document type.</p>
   <p>Existing structural specializations should be updated to include the structural module names
    in their domains attribute configuration entities. Having a complete declaration of all
    structural and domains modules in the <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> attribute allows processors to determine the set
    of required modules for a given topic or map document without also examining all the <xmlatt>class</xmlatt>
    attributes of all the elements in the document.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="section-3">
   <title>XML Schema declaration of domains attribute</title>
   <p>For XML schema shell document types, the way the <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> attribute is
        declared has changed. In DITA 1.1 the <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> attribute was defined using
        an <xmlelement>xs:redefine</xmlelement> element. For DITA 1.2 the attribute is defined in
        document type shells and referenced from modules, like
        so:<codeblock>&lt;xs:attributeGroup name="domains-att">
    &lt;xs:attribute name="domains" type="xs:string" 
     default="(topic ui-d) 
              (topic hi-d) 
              (topic sw-d) 
              (topic pr-d) 
              (topic ut-d) 
              (topic indexing-d) 
              (topic hazard-d) 
              (topic abbrev-d)"
     />
&lt;/xs:attributeGroup></codeblock></p>
   <p>XML Schema document type shells must be updated to use the new declaration mechanism in order
    to continue to be valid XSD schemas.</p>
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>

