<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="migrating_from_1.2_to_1.3" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Migrating from DITA 1.2 to 1.3</title>
  <shortdesc>DITA 1.3 defines two new domains for describing learning and training interactions:
    learningInteractionBase2Domain and learning2Domain. These two new domains mirror the DITA 1.2
    learningInteractionBase and general learning domains, but the new versions provide support for
    multi-paragraph questions, answers, and feedback. The new domains are otherwise semantically
    identical to the original domains.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <p>For backwards compatibility, both interactions domains are supported in DITA 1.3, and the
      document type shells provided with DITA 1.3 include both. In order to use the new elements,
      existing non-OASIS document type shells need to be updated to reference the new domain. See
      the OASIS provided DTD, RNG, or XSD shells for learningContent for examples of how to
      integrate these domains, or follow your normal process for integrating a new domain.</p>
    <p >To migrate to the Learning 2 Domain, element tags in existing learning
      documents need to be transformed to the new names. This is done by adding a 2 to each element
      name in DITA documents that use the old domain. Once the element names have been changed, it
      is safe to remove the old domain from your shells. The complete list of elements to migrate is
      as follows: </p>
    <simpletable>
      <sthead>
        <stentry>DITA 1.2 element name</stentry>
        <stentry>DITA 1.3 element name</stentry>
      </sthead>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcAnswerContent</stentry>
        <stentry>lcAnswerContent2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcAnswerOption</stentry>
        <stentry>lcAnswerOption2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcAnswerOptionGroup</stentry>
        <stentry>lcAnswerOptionGroup2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcArea</stentry>
        <stentry>lcArea2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcAreaCoords</stentry>
        <stentry>lcAreaCoords2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcAreaShape</stentry>
        <stentry>lcAreaShape2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcAsset</stentry>
        <stentry>lcAsset2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcCorrectResponse</stentry>
        <stentry>lcCorrectResponse2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcFeedback</stentry>
        <stentry>lcFeedback2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcFeedbackCorrect</stentry>
        <stentry>lcFeedbackCorrect2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcFeedbackIncorrect</stentry>
        <stentry>lcFeedbackIncorrect2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcHotspot</stentry>
        <stentry>lcHotspot2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcHotspotMap</stentry>
        <stentry>lcHotspotMap2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcInstructornote</stentry>
        <stentry>lcInstructornote2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcInteractionBase</stentry>
        <stentry>lcInteractionBase2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcInteractionLabel</stentry>
        <stentry>lcInteractionLabel2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcItem</stentry>
        <stentry>lcItem2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcMatching</stentry>
        <stentry>lcMatching2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcMatchingHeader</stentry>
        <stentry>lcMatchingHeader2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcMatchingItem</stentry>
        <stentry>lcMatchingItem2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcMatchingItemFeedback</stentry>
        <stentry>lcMatchingItemFeedback2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcMatchingPair</stentry>
        <stentry>lcMatchingPair2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcMatchTable</stentry>
        <stentry>lcMatchTable2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcMultipleSelect</stentry>
        <stentry>lcMultipleSelect2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcOpenAnswer</stentry>
        <stentry>lcOpenAnswer2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcOpenQuestion</stentry>
        <stentry>lcOpenQuestion2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcQuestion</stentry>
        <stentry>lcQuestion2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcQuestionBase</stentry>
        <stentry>lcQuestionBase2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcSequence</stentry>
        <stentry>lcSequence2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcSequenceOption</stentry>
        <stentry>lcSequenceOption2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcSequenceOptionGroup</stentry>
        <stentry>lcSequenceOptionGroup2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcSequencing</stentry>
        <stentry>lcSequencing2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcSingleSelect</stentry>
        <stentry>lcSingleSelect2</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>lcTrueFalse</stentry>
        <stentry>lcTrueFalse2</stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>
  </conbody>
</concept>

