<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="new-in-1.3" xml:lang="en-us" >
 <title>Changes from DITA 1.2 to DITA 1.3</title>
 <shortdesc>DITA 1.3 adds a number of new features and refinements to DITA.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <section id="enhancements">
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Enhancements to keys</dt>
     <dd>
      <ul>
       <li >Added scoped keys</li>
       <li >Added facility for key-based, cross-deliverable <ph
                  >addressing</ph></li>
      </ul>
     </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry >
     <dt>New XML grammars</dt>
     <dd>The DITA standard now supports RELAX NG.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Enhancements to conditional processing (filtering)</dt>
     <dd>
      <ul>
       <li >Enabled information architects to associate DITAVAL conditions with
                specific topic collections in a map (branch filtering). Prior to DITA 1.3, a set of
                DITAVAL conditions could only be associated with a root map.</li>
       <li >Expanded syntax for filtering attributes. The original property
        attributes (<xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>product</xmlatt>,
        and <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt>) now accept grouped values, using the same syntax for
        generalized attribute values within <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>base</xmlatt>.</li>
      </ul>
     </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry >
     <dt>Enhancements to addressing</dt>
     <dd>Added new (abbreviated) syntax for addressing an element within the same DITA topic</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry >
     <dt>Enhancements to specialization</dt>
     <dd>Enabled <ph >individual element types</ph> of structural
            specializations to be reused by other structural specializations without requiring one
            to be specialized from the other. For example, allowed the
              <xmlelement>steps</xmlelement> element from <xmlelement>task</xmlelement> to be reused
            in place of an <xmlelement>ol</xmlelement> within a <xmlelement>remedy</xmlelement>
            section of the troubleshooting document type.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Increased support for producing troubleshooting information</dt>
     <dd>
      <ul>
       <li >Added a new value, "trouble", for the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt>
                attribute of the <xmlelement>note</xmlelement> element</li>
       <li product="technicalContent" >Added a new element,
                  <xmlelement>steptroubleshooting</xmlelement>, which is designed to contain
                information that might assist users when a step does not produce the expected result
                or complete successfully</li>
       <li product="technicalContent" >Added a new element,
                  <xmlelement>tasktroubleshooting</xmlelement>, which is designed to contain
                information that might assist users when a task does not produce the expected result
                or complete successfully</li>
       <li product="technicalContent" >Added a new troubleshooting topic</li>
      </ul>
     </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Increased support for producing user assistance</dt>
     <dd>
      <ul>
       <li >Added the following new attributes to
         <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement>:<ul>
         <li><xmlatt>appid</xmlatt></li>
         <li><xmlatt>ux-context-string</xmlatt>
         </li>
         <li><xmlatt>ux-source-priority</xmlatt></li>
         <li><xmlatt>ux-windowref</xmlatt>
         </li>
        </ul></li>
       <li >Added a new element, <xmlelement>ux-window</xmlelement>, designed to
                specify a window or viewport in which an online help topic or Web page is
                displayed</li>
      </ul>
     </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry product="technicalContent">
          <dt>New domains</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>Added the following new domains:</p>
            <ul>
              <li product="technicalContent" >Markup and XML mention domains,
                designed to support the description and documentation of XML document types and XML
                applications</li>
              <li product="technicalContent" >Release management domain,
                designed to enable content authors to log comments and metadata in DITA topics and
                maps when changes are made</li>
              <li product="technicalContent" >Equation and MathML domains,
                designed to enable use of MathML markup within DITA documents, as well as
                use-by-reference of MathML markup that is held in separate, non-DITA documents </li>
              <li product="technicalContent" >SVG domain, designed to enable use
                of SVG markup within DITA documents, as well as use-by-reference of SVG markup that
                is held in separate, non-DITA documents</li>
            </ul>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
    <dlentry product="learningTraining">
     <dt>Enhancements to the learning and training specialization</dt>
     <dd>
      <ul>
       <li >Added the learning object map:
         <xmlelement>learningObjectMap</xmlelement></li>
       <li >Added the learning object reference:
         <xmlelement>learningObjectMapRef</xmlelement></li>
       <li >Added the learning group map:
         <xmlelement>learningGroupMap</xmlelement></li>
       <li >Added the learning group reference:
         <xmlelement>learningGroupMapRef</xmlelement></li>
       <li >Added a new base domain and specialized domain for question and
                answer interactions</li>
      </ul>
     </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>New base elements and attributes</dt>
     <dd>
      <ul>
       <li >Added the <xmlelement>div</xmlelement> element. This element enables
                arbitrary grouping of content within a topic. It is primarily intended as a way to
                group content for content referencing or as a basis for specialization.</li>
       <li >Added new conditional processing attribute,
                  <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>, to replace the now-deprecated
                  <xmlatt>print</xmlatt> attribute. Users can set controlled values for the
                  <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt> attribute by using a subject scheme map.</li>
       <li >Added <xmlatt>orient</xmlatt> to <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> and
         <xmlatt>rotate</xmlatt> to <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement>. These new attributes enable
        authors to control formatting more precisely for print-based output formats.</li>
       <li >Added <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>headers</xmlatt> attributes to
        the <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement> element in tables. These new attributes are intended for
        extremely complex tables where accessibility cannot be handled based on existing header
        markup.</li>
       <li >Added a new attribute, <xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt>, to better control
        how metadata attributes cascade within a DITA map</li>
      </ul>
     </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Modifications to the base content model</dt>
     <dd>
      <ul>
       <li >Enabled <xmlelement>draft-comment</xmlelement> in more places</li>
       <li >Enabled <xmlelement>text</xmlelement> in more places</li>
       <li >Extended content model of <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> to allow
        additional phrase level markup. </li>
       <li >Extended the list of values allowed for the <xmlatt>style</xmlatt>
        attribute on <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>revprop</xmlelement> elements in
        DITAVAL files.</li>
       <li >Enabled <xmlelement>ph</xmlelement> within
         <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement>. This makes it possible to use specializations of the
         <xmlelement>ph</xmlelement> element, such as <xmlelement>sup</xmlelement> and
         <xmlelement>sub</xmlelement>, within index entries.</li>
       <li >Enabled <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> for <xmlelement>object</xmlelement>
        and <xmlelement>param</xmlelement></li>
       <li >Added <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> to the content model for
        lists</li>
       <li >Added new default values for the <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> and
                  <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> attributes</li>
       <li >Added <xmlatt>rev</xmlatt> attribute to
         <xmlelement>title</xmlelement></li>
       <li >Added <xmlelement>cite</xmlelement> to the content model of
         <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> and similar elements</li>
       <li >Added <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> to the content model for
         <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement></li>
      </ul>
     </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Refinements to base domains</dt>
     <dd>
      <ul>
       <li >Added element for sorting, <xmlelement>sort-as</xmlelement>, to the
        utilities domain</li>
       <li >Added new elements <xmlelement>line-through</xmlelement> and
         <xmlelement>overline</xmlelement> to the highlighting domain </li>
      </ul>
     </dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>

