<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="oasisdomains" xml:lang="en-us" >
<title>Domains and constraints in the OASIS specification</title>
<shortdesc>OASIS distributes grammar files for a set of domains and constraints. </shortdesc>
<refbody>
<section id="section-1">
<p>A designation of (map) after the domain name indicates that the domain only specializes map
    elements; a designation of (topic) indicates that the domain specializes elements that are only
    available in topic or that it <ph >can</ph> only be used in topics. A
    designation of (map/topic) indicates that the domain specializes elements that are common to
    both maps and topics, so could be used in either even if it is generally intended for one or the
    other. Attribute domains <ph >can</ph> always be used in both topics and
    maps.</p>
</section>
<table id="basedomains" product="base">
<title>Base domains</title>
<tgroup cols="3">
    <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1.13*"/>
    <colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="2.68*"/>
    <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
    <thead>
     <row valign="bottom">
      <entry colname="col1">Domain</entry>
      <entry colname="COLSPEC0">Description</entry>
      <entry colname="col2">Short name</entry>
     </row>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
     <row>
      <entry colname="col1">Classify (map)</entry>
      <entry colname="COLSPEC0">For associating content in a map with subjects in a subject
       scheme.</entry>
      <entry colname="col2">classify-d</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry>Conref delayed resolution (map/topic)</entry>
      <entry>For delaying resolution of <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> on some
       elements.</entry>
      <entry>delay-d</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt> attribute</entry>
      <entry>Attribute for filtering based on delivery target.</entry>
      <entry> N/A</entry>
     </row>
     
     <row>
      <entry colname="col1">Ditavalref (map)</entry>
      <entry colname="COLSPEC0">For filtering a branch of a map.</entry>
      <entry colname="col2">ditavalref-d</entry>
     </row>
      
     <row>
      <entry>Hazard statements (map/topic)</entry>
      <entry>For providing detailed information about safety hazards.</entry>
      <entry>hazard-d</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry colname="col1"><ph >Highlighting (map/topic)</ph></entry>
      <entry colname="COLSPEC0">For highlighting when the appropriate semantic element does not
       exist yet.</entry>
      <entry colname="col2">hi-d</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry colname="col1">Indexing (map/topic)</entry>
      <entry colname="COLSPEC0">For extended indexing functions such as see and see-also.</entry>
      <entry colname="col2">indexing-d</entry>
     </row>
     
     <row>
      <entry colname="col1">Map group (map)</entry>
      <entry colname="COLSPEC0">Utility elements for use in maps.</entry>
      <entry colname="col2">mapgroup-d</entry>
     </row>
     
     <row>
      <entry colname="col1">Utilities (map/topic)</entry>
      <entry colname="COLSPEC0">For providing imagemaps<ph >, sort
        keys,</ph> and other useful structures.</entry>
      <entry colname="col2">ut-d</entry>
     </row>


     <!--<row rev="DITA1.2-errata">
<entry>Delayed conref resolution</entry>
<entry>For enabling delayed or run-time resolution of conref</entry>
<entry>delay-d</entry>
<entry>
<lines>delayResolutionDomain.mod (DTD)
delayResolutionDomain.ent
delayResolutionDomain.xsd (Schema)</lines>
</entry>
</row>-->
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
</table>
<table id="tcdomains" product="technicalContent">
<title>Technical content domains</title>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1.26*"/>
<colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="3.16*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Domain </entry>
<entry colname="COLSPEC0">Description </entry>
<entry colname="col2">Short name </entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Abbreviated form (map/topic) </entry>
<entry colname="COLSPEC0">For linking between a text reference to a
<xmlelement>glossentry</xmlelement> topic. A specialization of <xmlelement>term</xmlelement> to
provide an <xmlelement>abbreviated-form</xmlelement> element.</entry>
<entry colname="col2">abbrev-d</entry>
</row>
<row >
<entry>Equation (map/topic)</entry>
<entry>For containing equations and providing an integration point for MathML.</entry>
<entry>equation-d</entry>
</row>
 
 <row>
  <entry>Glossary reference (map)</entry>
  <entry>For linking from a term to its glossary topic. </entry>
  <entry>glossref-d </entry>
 </row>
 
<row >
<entry colname="col1">Markup (map/topic)</entry>
<entry colname="COLSPEC0">For describing markup.</entry>
<entry colname="col2">markup-d</entry>
</row>
<row >
<entry colname="col1">MathML (map/topic)</entry>
<entry colname="COLSPEC0">For containing MathML markup.</entry>
<entry colname="col2">mathml-d</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Programming (map/topic)</entry>
<entry colname="COLSPEC0">For describing programming and programming languages.</entry>
<entry colname="col2">pr-d </entry>
</row>
<row >
<entry colname="col1">Release management (map/topic)</entry>
<entry colname="COLSPEC0">For describing release management metadata.</entry>
<entry colname="col2">relmgmt-d</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Software (map/topic)</entry>
<entry colname="COLSPEC0">For describing software. </entry>
<entry colname="col2">sw-d </entry>
</row>
<row >
<entry colname="col1">SVG (map/topic)</entry>
<entry colname="COLSPEC0">For enabling use of SVG markup within DITA documents.</entry>
<entry colname="col2">svg-d</entry>
</row>
 
 <row>
  <entry colname="col1">Task requirements (topic)</entry>
  <entry colname="COLSPEC0">For machinery tasks.</entry>
  <entry colname="col2">taskreq-d</entry>
 </row>
 
<row>
<entry colname="col1">User interface (map/topic)</entry>
<entry colname="COLSPEC0">For describing elements in a user interface.</entry>
<entry colname="col2">ui-d </entry>
</row>
<row >
<entry colname="col1">XML mention (map/topic)</entry>
<entry colname="COLSPEC0">For describing XML constructions.</entry>
<entry colname="col2">xml-d</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">xNAL (map/topic)</entry>
<entry colname="COLSPEC0">For name and addressing metadata based on the xNAL standard.</entry>
<entry colname="col2">xnal-d</entry>
</row>


</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<table frame="all" id="tcconstraints" product="technicalContent">
<title>Technical content constraints</title>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Constraint</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
 <row>
  <entry>Machinery task body</entry>
  <entry>For constraining <xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement> in the machinery task.</entry>
 </row>
<row>
<entry>Strict task body</entry>
<entry>For constraining <xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement> in the strict task.</entry>
</row>

</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</refbody>
<?tm 1241557125 2?>
</reference>
