<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="speclimits" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Specialization design, customization, and the limits of specialization</title>
  <shortdesc>DITA specialization imposes certain restrictions. An inherent challenge in designing
    DITA vocabulary modules and document types is understanding how to satisfy markup requirements
    within those restrictions and, when the requirements cannot be met by a design that fully
    conforms to the DITA architecture, how to create customized document types that diverge from the
    DITA standard as little as possible.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <p>DITA imposes the following structural restrictions:<ul>
        <li>All topics must have titles.</li>
        <li>Topic body content must be contained within a body element.</li>
        <li>Section elements cannot nest.</li>
        <li>Metadata specific to an element type must be represented using elements, not
          attributes.</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <p>When markup requirements cannot be met within the DITA architecture, there still might be an
      interest in using DITA features and technology, or a business need for interoperability with
      conforming DITA documents and processors. In this case, the solution is to create
        <term>customized document types</term>. Customized document types are document types that do
      not conform to the DITA standard. To reduce the cost of producing conforming documents from
      non-conforming documents, custom document types should minimize the extent to which they
      diverge from the DITA standard.</p>
    <p>Typical reasons for considering custom document types include the following:<ul>
        <li>Optimizing markup for authoring</li>
        <li>Supporting legacy markup structures that are not consistent with DITA structural rules,
          for example, footnotes within titles</li>
        <li>Defining different forms of existing structures, such as lists, where the DITA-defined
          structures are too constrained</li>
        <li>Providing attributes required by specific processors, such as CMS-defined attributes for
          maintaining management metadata</li>
        <li>Embedding tool-imposed markup in places that do not allow the
            <xmlelement>foreign</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>unknown</xmlelement> elements</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>Remember that customized document types do not conform to the DITA standard, and thus are not
      considered DITA. In many of the cases above, it is possible to define document types that
      conform to the DITA standard. Explore this fully before developing customized document
      types.</p>
    <section id="section-1">
      <title>Optimizing document types</title>
      <p>Conforming DITA grammar files are modular, which facilitates exchange of vocabulary modules
        and constraints and simplifies the process of assembling document type shells. In some cases
        there might be a reason to avoid the modular approach and use an optimized document type
        composed of a single file (or a smaller number of files). For example, this could be
        advantageous in situations where validation occurs over a network.</p>
      <p>In an optimized DTD, entities might also be resolved to further optimize processing or
        validation. This could speed up processing for environments that process and validate large
        numbers of DITA maps and topics.</p>
      <p>An optimized document type will still allow for the creation of conforming DITA content
        that follows all other rules in the DITA specification. In these cases it is still possible
        to create a document type that conforms completely to standard DITA coding practices.
        Maintaining a conforming copy ensures that the optimized document type is still conforming
        to the standard, and might also ease interchange with tools that expect conforming document
        types.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="creating-custom-doctypes">
      <title>Creating custom document types for non-standard markup</title>
      <p>When the relaxed content models for DITA elements are inappropriately open for authoring
        purposes, document type shells can remove undesireable domains or use constraint modules to
        restrict content models. If content models are not relaxed enough, and markup requirements
        include content models that are <i>less</i> constrained than those defined by DITA, custom
        document types <ph rev="public-review-1">might</ph> be the only option.</p>
      <p>Customized document types do not conform to the DITA standard. Preprocessing can ensure
        compatibility with existing publishing processes, but it does not ensure compatibility with
        DITA-supporting authoring tools or content management systems. However, when an
        implementation is being heavily customized, a customized document type can help isolate and
        control the consequences of non-standard design.</p>
      <p>For example, if an authoring group requires the <xmlelement>p</xmlelement> element to be
        spelled out as <xmlelement>paragraph</xmlelement>, the document type could be customized to
        change <xmlelement>p</xmlelement> to <xmlelement>paragraph</xmlelement> for authoring
        purposes. Such documents then could be preprocessed to rename
          <xmlelement>paragraph</xmlelement> back to <xmlelement>p</xmlelement> before they are fed
        into a standard DITA publishing process.</p>
      <p>Because DITA document types are designed to enable constraints, such customized documents
        can still take advantage of existing override schemes. While still not valid DITA, a
        document type shell could be set up that implements local requirements (such as adding
        global CMS-defined attributes), and then imports an otherwise valid document type shell.
        This helps isolate non-compliant portions of the document type, while reusing as much as
        possible of the original DITA grammar.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="specialization-considerations">
      <title>Specialization design considerations</title>
      <p>Requirements for new markup often appear to be incompatible with DITA architectural rules
        or existing markup, especially when mapping existing non-DITA markup practice to DITA, where
        the existing markup <ph rev="public-review-1">might</ph> have used structures that cannot be
        directly expressed in DITA. For example, you might need markup for a specialized form of
        list where the details are not consistent with the base model for DITA lists.</p>
      <p>In this case you have two alternatives, one that conforms to DITA and one that does
        not.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Specialize from more generic base elements or attributes.</li>
        <li>Define non-conforming structures and map them to conforming DITA structures as necessary
          for processing by DITA-aware processors or for interchange as conforming DITA
          documents.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>Specializing from more generic base elements, such as defining a list using specializations
        of <xmlelement>ph</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>div</xmlelement>, while technically
        conforming, might still impede interchange of such documents. Generic DITA processors will
        have no way of knowing that what they see as a sequence of phrases or divisions is really a
        list and should be rendered in a manner similar to standard DITA lists. However, your
        documents will be reliably interchangeable with conforming DITA systems.</p>
      <p>Defining non-conforming markup structures means that the resulting documents are not
        conforming DITA documents. They cannot be reliably processed by generic DITA-aware
        processors or interchanged with other DITA systems. However, as long as the documents can be
        transformed into conforming DITA documents without undue effort, interchange and
        interoperation requirements can be satisfied as needed. For example, a content management
        system could add its own required markup for management metadata, but strip the metadata
        when delivering content to conforming DITA processors.</p>
      <p>Note that even if one uses the DITA-defined types as a starting point, any change to those
        base types not accomplished through specialization or the constraint feature defines a
        completely new document type that has no normative relationship to the DITA document types,
        and cannot be considered in any way to be a conforming DITA application. In particular, the
        use of DITA specialization from non-DITA base types does not produce DITA-conforming
        vocabularies.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="specialization-from-generic">
      <title>Specialize from generic elements or attributes</title>
      <p>Most DITA element types have relaxed content models that are specifically designed to allow
        a wide set of options when specializing from them. However, some DITA element types do
        impose limits that might not be acceptable or appropriate for a specific markup application.
        In this case, consider specializing from a more generic base element or attribute. </p>
      <p>Generic elements are available in DITA at every level of detail, from whole topics down to
        individual keywords, and the generic <xmlatt>base</xmlatt> attribute is available for
        attribute domain specialization.</p>
      <p>For example, if you want to create a new kind of list but cannot usefully do so
        specializing from <xmlelement>ul</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>ol</xmlelement>,
          <xmlelement>sl</xmlelement>, or <xmlelement>dl</xmlelement>, you can create a new set of
        list elements by specializing nested <xmlelement>div</xmlelement> elements. This new list
        structure will require specialized processing to generate appropriate output styling,
        because it is not semantically tied to the other lists by ancestry. Nevertheless, it will
        remain a valid DITA specialization, with the standard support for generalization, content
        referencing, conditional processing, and more.</p>
      <p>The following base elements in <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> are generic enough to support
        almost any structurally-valid DITA specialization:<dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlelement>topic</xmlelement></dt>
            <dd>Any content unit that has a title and associated content</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlelement>section</xmlelement></dt>
            <dd>Any non-nesting division of content within a topic, titled or not</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlelement>p</xmlelement></dt>
            <dd>Any non-nesting non-titled block of content below the section level</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlelement>fig</xmlelement></dt>
            <dd>Any titled block of content below the section level</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlelement>ul</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>ol</xmlelement>,
                <xmlelement>dl</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>sl</xmlelement>,
                <xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement></dt>
            <dd>Any structured block of content that consists of listed items in one or more
              columns</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlelement>ph</xmlelement></dt>
            <dd>Any division of content below the paragraph level</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlelement>text</xmlelement></dt>
            <dd>Text within a phrase</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlelement>keyword</xmlelement></dt>
            <dd>Any non-nesting division of content below the paragraph level</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlelement>data</xmlelement></dt>
            <dd><ph>Any content that acts as metadata rather than core topic or map
              content</ph></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlelement>foreign</xmlelement></dt>
            <dd>Any content that already has a non-DITA markup standard, but still needs to be
              authored as part of the DITA document. Processors should attempt to render this
              element, if at all possible. </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlelement>unknown</xmlelement></dt>
            <dd>Any non-standard markup that does not fit the DITA model, but needs to be managed as
              part of a DITA document. Processors should not attempt to render this element.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlelement>bodydiv</xmlelement></dt>
            <dd>A generic, untitled, nestable container for content within topic bodies</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlelement>sectiondiv</xmlelement></dt>
            <dd>A generic, untitled, nestable container for content within sections</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry >
            <dt><xmlelement>div</xmlelement></dt>
            <dd>A generic, untitled, nestable container for content within topic bodies or sections
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
      <p>The following attributes in topic are suitable for domain specialization to provide new
        attributes that are required throughout a document type:<dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlatt>props</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Any new conditional processing attribute</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlatt>base</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Any new attribute that is universally available, has a simple syntax
              (space-delimited alphanumeric values), and does not already have a semantic
              equivalent</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
      <p>Whenever possible, specialize from the element or attribute that is the closest semantic
        match.</p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
