<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="bookmeta" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>bookmeta</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>bookmeta</xmlelement> element contains information about the book that is
    not considered book content, such as copyright information, author information, and any
    classifications. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>Bookmap elements<indexterm>bookmeta</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>bookmeta</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-bookmeta/contains" id="contains" otherprops="contains"></section>



<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance"><title>Inheritance</title><p>-
map/topicmeta bookmap/bookmeta </p></section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title><p>In this example:<ul>
<li>The <xmlelement>authorinformation</xmlelement> contains the content for a reader's comment form;
            the <xmlelement>maintainer</xmlelement> element references that author information to
            create the reader comment form.</li>
<li>The <xmlelement>prodinfo</xmlelement> element contains the book's product information. This
            includes the product name, and the version, release, and modification information.</li>
<li>The <xmlelement>bookid</xmlelement> element contains the book's form number and part number
            information. The <xmlelement>maintainer</xmlelement> element contains information about
            the current maintainer of the book; it <ph rev="public-review-1">might</ph> reference
            the <xmlelement>authorinformation</xmlelement> element to provide detailed information
            about an author that is also the current maintainer.</li>
<li>The <xmlelement>bookrights</xmlelement> element contains the book's copyright information.</li>
</ul></p><p>This example makes heavy use of <xmlelement>authorinformation</xmlelement>, which is a domain
        element that OASIS delivers only with the <xmlelement>bookmap</xmlelement> specialization.
        However, other DTD, XSD Schema, or RELAX NG implementations of
          <xmlelement>bookmap</xmlelement> may not include the domain with
          <xmlelement>authorinformation</xmlelement>; likewise,
          <xmlelement>authorinformation</xmlelement> may be included in other document types.</p><codeblock>&lt;bookmeta&gt;
  &lt;authorinformation id="rcf"&gt;
    &lt;organizationinfo&gt;
      &lt;namedetails&gt;
        &lt;organizationnamedetails>
          &lt;organizationname&gt;IBM&lt;/organizationname&gt;
        &lt;/organizationnamedetails&gt;
      &lt;/namedetails&gt;
      &lt;addressdetails&gt;ATTN: Dept XYZ&lt;thoroughfare&gt;3905 37th Street NW&lt;/thoroughfare&gt;
        &lt;locality&gt;Rochester, MN&lt;postalcode&gt;55901&lt;/postalcode&gt;&lt;/locality&gt;
        &lt;country&gt;USA&lt;/country&gt;
      &lt;/addressdetails&gt;
      &lt;contactnumbers&gt;
        &lt;contactnumber type="telephone"&gt;800-555-1212&lt;/contactnumber&gt;
        &lt;contactnumber type="fax"&gt;800-555-1213&lt;/contactnumber&gt;
      &lt;/contactnumbers&gt;
      &lt;emailaddresses&gt;&lt;emailaddress&gt;fred@example.com&lt;/emailaddress&gt;&lt;/emailaddresses&gt;
      &lt;urls&gt;&lt;url&gt;http://www.example.com/fred&lt;/url&gt;&lt;/urls&gt;
   &lt;/organizationinfo&gt;
  &lt;/authorinformation&gt;
  &lt;prodinfo&gt;
    &lt;prodname&gt;My Product&lt;/prodname&gt;
    &lt;vrmlist&gt;&lt;vrm release="Release 1" version="Version 3"/&gt;&lt;/vrmlist&gt;
  &lt;/prodinfo&gt;
  &lt;bookid&gt;
    &lt;bookpartno&gt;99F9999&lt;/bookpartno&gt;
    &lt;booknumber&gt;SC00-0000-00&lt;/booknumber&gt;
    &lt;maintainer href="#rcf"&gt;&lt;/maintainer&gt;
  &lt;/bookid&gt;
  &lt;bookrights&gt;
    &lt;copyrfirst&gt;&lt;year&gt;1996&lt;/year&gt;&lt;/copyrfirst&gt;
    &lt;copyrlast&gt;&lt;year&gt;2006&lt;/year&gt;&lt;/copyrlast&gt;
    &lt;bookowner&gt;&lt;organization&gt;OASIS&lt;/organization&gt;&lt;/bookowner&gt;
  &lt;/bookrights&gt;
&lt;/bookmeta&gt;</codeblock></example>
<section id="attributes"><title>Attributes</title><sectiondiv
        conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/standard-topicmeta-attributes"
      /></section>
</refbody>
</reference>

