<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="equation-number" >
  <title><xmlelement>equation-number</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc>Use the <xmlelement>equation-number</xmlelement> element to indicate that a block
    equation is numbered and, optionally, to specify the number to use for the block equation. </shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section id="rendering">
      <p>When the <xmlelement>equation-number</xmlelement> element has empty or whitespace-only
        content, the equation number <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> be
        generated. When the <xmlelement>equation-number</xmlelement> element has non-whitespace-only
        content the content <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> be used as
        the equation number. For explicit numbers the content of the element <term
          outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> be the number value without any
        surrounding punctuation, for example, "3.2a" rather than "(3.2a)". Processors <term
          outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> add punctuation or decoration to
        the number as appropriate. </p>
      <p>In normal usage a block equation will have at most one number. However,
          <xmlelement>equation-number</xmlelement>
        <ph >can</ph> occur multiple times within
          <xmlelement>equation-block</xmlelement>, for example, to allow numbers with different (and
        exclusive) conditional properties. </p>
      <p>The details of equation numbering and number presentation are processor-specific. However,
        common practice is to present the equation number to the right of the equation, centered
        vertically within the vertical extent of the block equation.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="contains" conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-equation-number/contains" otherprops="contains"/>
    <section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance">
      <title>Inheritance</title>
      <p>+ topic/ph equation-d/equation-number </p>
    </section>
    <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>An equation with a generated
        number:<codeblock>&lt;p>A block equation using an image:&lt;/p>
&lt;equation-block id="eq-001">
  &lt;equation-number/>
  &lt;image keyref="equation-image-01">
    &lt;alt>a squared plus b squared.&lt;/alt>
  &lt;/image>
&lt;/equation-block></codeblock></p>
      <p>An equation with an explicit
        number:<codeblock>&lt;p>A block equation using an image:&lt;/p>
&lt;equation-block id="eq-3.2a">
  &lt;equation-number>3.2a&lt;/equation-number>
  &lt;image keyref="equation-image-01">
    &lt;alt>a squared plus b squared.&lt;/alt>
  &lt;/image>
&lt;/equation-block></codeblock></p>
    </example>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/universal-outputclass"/>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
