<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="glossAlternateFor" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>glossAlternateFor</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>glossAlternateFor</xmlelement> element indicates when a variant term has
  a relationship to another variant term in addition to the preferred term.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm><xmlelement>glossAlternateFor</xmlelement></indexterm>
    <indexterm>glossaries<indexterm>variant terms</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>glossentry
     elements<indexterm><xmlelement>glossAlternateFor</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="section-1">The <xmlelement>glossAlternateFor</xmlelement> element is available inside
      the <xmlelement>glossAlt</xmlelement> element, which is a container that provides a variant
      for the primary <xmlelement>glossentry</xmlelement> term. In some cases, the variant <ph
        >might</ph> also be an alternate for another term. In the example
      below, the abbreviation "stick" is a variant of the primary term (USB flash drive). The
        <xmlelement>glossAlternateFor</xmlelement> element indicates that "stick" is also a variant
      of the synonym "memory stick".</section>
<section id="contains" conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-glossAlternateFor/contains" otherprops="contains"></section>

<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance"><title>Inheritance</title><p>-
topic/xref concept/xref glossentry/glossAlternateFor </p></section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples">
<title>Example</title>
<p>See the example in <xref href="glossentry.dita#glossentry/example"
><xmlelement>glossentry</xmlelement>.</xref></p></example>
<section id="attributes"><title>Attributes</title>
<p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
href="../attributes/universalAttributes.dita"/>, <xref
href="../attributes/linkRelationshipAttributes.dita"/> (with a narrowed definition of
<xmlatt>href</xmlatt>, given below), <xref
href="../attributes/thekeyrefattribute.dita#thekeyrefattribute"><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></xref>, and
<xref href="../attributes/commonAttributes.dita#common-atts/outputclass"/>.<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt><xmlatt>href</xmlatt></dt>
<dd>References a term for which the current variant is an alternate (in addition to the primary term
of this <xmlelement>glossentry</xmlelement> topic). The reference will often be to another
<xmlelement>glossAlt</xmlelement> element within the same <xmlelement>glossentry</xmlelement> topic,
indicating that the current variant is an alternate for both the primary term and the referenced
alternate term. See <xref href="../attributes/thehrefattribute.dita"/> for details on syntax.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
