<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="glossAcronym" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>glossAcronym</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>glossAcronym</xmlelement> element defines an acronym for the term that is
      defined in the <xmlelement>glossterm</xmlelement> element. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm><xmlelement>glossAcronym</xmlelement></indexterm>
            <indexterm>glossaries<indexterm>acronyms</indexterm></indexterm>
            <indexterm>glossentry
                  elements<indexterm><xmlelement>glossAcronym</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="section-1"><p>This element can be used with the <xmlelement>abbreviated-form</xmlelement> element to display an
            expanded version of an acronym the first time that acronym appears in a set of text. See
               <xref href="abbreviated-form.dita"><xmlelement>abbreviated-form</xmlelement></xref>
            for information on how the two elements interact.</p><note>Several issues arise when acronyms are translated into other languages. For example, an
            acronym in one language <ph rev="public-review-1">might</ph> not have an equivalent in
            another language. When acronyms are first displayed, some languages will display the
            expanded form first followed by the acronym in parenthesis, while other languages do the
            reverse. For some acronyms, a translation <ph rev="public-review-1">might</ph> need to
            render both the original and the translated version of the acronym. For all of these
            reasons, DITA allows an author or translator to control what is presented to a reader by
            using the <xmlelement>glossSurfaceForm</xmlelement> element, which will often accompany
            the <xmlelement>glossAcronym</xmlelement>. The <xref href="abbreviated-form.dita"
                  ><xmlelement>abbreviated-form</xmlelement></xref> topic contains information on
            how the <xmlelement>glossSurfaceForm</xmlelement> and
               <xmlelement>glossAcronym</xmlelement> elements affect references to the primary
            term.</note></section>
<section id="contains" conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-glossAcronym/contains" otherprops="contains"></section>

<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance"><title>Inheritance</title><p>-
topic/title concept/title glossentry/glossAcronym </p></section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples">
<title>Example</title>
<p>See the example in <xref href="glossentry.dita#glossentry/example"
><xmlelement>glossentry</xmlelement>.</xref></p></example>
<section id="attributes"><title>Attributes</title>
   <p conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/topic-body"/>
   </section>
</refbody>
</reference>
