<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="glossref" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>glossref</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>glossref</xmlelement> element is a convenience element in maps for
creating a reference to a glossary topic. It has a required <xmlatt>keys</xmlatt> attribute, which
forces the author to create a key by which inline terms can reference their definition. For example,
when <xmlelement>glossentry</xmlelement> topics are used to define acronyms, this reminds authors to
create a key which <xmlelement>abbreviated-form</xmlelement> elements can use to reference the short
and expanded versions of that acronym.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm><xmlelement>glossref</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm>glossary-related
          elements<indexterm><xmlelement>glossref</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="section-1">Note that the key value does not need to match the target term or acronym.
      In fact, using a more qualified value for the <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> will reduce conflicts in
      situations where the same term or acronym <ph >might</ph> resolve in many
      ways. For example, an information set could use <q>cars.abs</q> as the key for the term Anti-lock
      Braking System, and <q>ship.abs</q> to refer to the term American Bureau of Shipping.</section>
<section conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-glossref/contains" id="contains" otherprops="contains"></section>



<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance"><title>Inheritance</title><p>+
map/topicref glossref-d/glossref </p></section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title><codeblock>&lt;map>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
  &lt;topicref href="car-maintenance.dita"/>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
  &lt;glossref keys="cars.abs" href="antiLockBrake.dita"/>
  &lt;!-- ... key declarations for other referenced acronyms ... -->
&lt;/map></codeblock></example>
<section id="attributes"><title>Attributes</title>
<p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
href="../attributes/universalAttributes.dita"/>, <xref
href="../attributes/topicrefElementAttributes.dita"/>, <xref
href="../attributes/linkRelationshipAttributes.dita"/> (with a narrowed definition of
<xmlatt>href</xmlatt>, given below), <xref
href="../attributes/commonAttributes.dita#common-atts/outputclass"/>, <xref
href="../attributes/thekeyrefattribute.dita"><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></xref>, and the attributes
defined below. This element also uses <xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt>,
<xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>locktitle</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt>, and
<xmlatt>search</xmlatt> from <xref href="../attributes/commonMapAttributes.dita"/>; this element
also uses narrowed definitions of <xmlatt>linking</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt>, and
<xmlatt>print</xmlatt> from <xref href="../attributes/commonMapAttributes.dita"/>, given below.<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt><xmlatt>href</xmlatt></dt>
<dd>A pointer to a glossary definition, typically a <xmlelement>glossentry</xmlelement> topic. See
<xref href="../attributes/thehrefattribute.dita"/> for detailed information on supported values and
processing implications. <ph
conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/non-dita-href"/></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><xmlatt>keys</xmlatt>
<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/required-attr"/></dt>
<dd>Associates one or more space-delimited keys with the target of the glossary reference. See <xref
href="../attributes/thekeysattribute.dita"/> for information on using the attribute.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/toc-default-no">
<dt/>
<dd/>
</dlentry>
<dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/print-default-no">
<dt/>
<dd/>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><xmlatt>linking</xmlatt></dt>
<dd>Defines some specific linking characteristics of a glossary topic&apos;s current location in the
map. On this element the value defaults to "none" in order to keep individual glossary entries from
creating links based on their location in the map. Allowable values are:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>targetonly </dt>
<dd>A topic can only be linked to and cannot link to other topics. </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>sourceonly </dt>
<dd>A topic cannot be linked to but can link to other topics. </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>normal </dt>
<dd>A topic can be linked to and can link to other topics. Use this to override the linking value of
a parent topic. </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>none </dt>
<dd>A topic cannot be linked to or link to other topics. </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/ditauseconref">
<dt/>
<dd/>
</dlentry>
</dl></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>

