<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="svgref" >
  <title><xmlelement>svgref</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc>Use the <xmlelement>svgref</xmlelement> element to reference a non-DITA XML document
    that contains scalable vector graphic (SVG) markup. This element enables you to use the markup
    by reference.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>svgref</indexterm>
        <indexterm>SVG domain<indexterm>svgref</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="section-1">
      <p>The reference must be to a SVG <xmlelement>svg</xmlelement> element. The reference can be
        one of the following:<ul>
          <li>A URI that addresses an XML document; the XML document has a SVG
              <xmlelement>svg</xmlelement> element as the root element</li>
          <li>A URI that addresses an XML document and contains a fragment identifier that is the
            XML ID of a <xmlelement>svg</xmlelement> element within the document </li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>Processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> process the SVG as
        though the <xmlelement>svg</xmlelement> element had occurred directly in the content of the
        containing <xmlelement>svg-container</xmlelement> element.</p>
      <!--<note>To reuse SVG markup stored within a DITA topic, use a normal content reference from the &lt;svg-container> element.</note>-->
      <p>The reference can be direct, using the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute, or indirect, using
        the <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute. For indirect referencing, only the key name should be
        specified. The ID of the <xmlelement>svg</xmlelement> element must be specified as part of
        the value for the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute on the key definition.</p>
      <p>For example, to refer to the <xmlelement>svg</xmlelement> element with the
          <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> of "svg-fragment-02" within a larger document using a key reference,
        you would define the key in the following
        way:<codeblock>&lt;keydef 
  keys="svg-fragment-0002" 
  href="svg/svg-library.xml#svg-fragment-02"
/></codeblock>You
        would refer to this key using just the key
        name:<codeblock>&lt;svg-container>
  &lt;svgref keyref="svg-fragment-0002"/>
&lt;/svg-container></codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="contains" conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-svgref/contains" otherprops="contains"></section>
    
    <section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance">
      <title>Inheritance</title>
      <p>+ topic/xref svg-d/svgref </p>
    </section>
    <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>Here is a reference to an <xmlelement>svg</xmlelement> element that is the root element of
        its containing document:</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;fig>
  &lt;title>Figure With SVG Container&lt;/title>
  &lt;svg-container>
    &lt;svgref 
       href="media/svg/svg-graphic-01.xml" 
       format="svg"
    />
  &lt;/svg-container>
&lt;/fig></codeblock>
      <p>The <filepath>svg-graphic-01.xml</filepath> file contains the following content. Note that
        the <xmlelement>svg</xmlelement> element sets the SVG namespace as the default namespace, so
        there are no namespace prefixes on the SVG
        markup:<codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"
  width="100"
  height="100">
  &lt;defs>
    &lt;filter
      id="f1"
      x="0"
      y="0">
      &lt;feGaussianBlur
        in="SourceGraphic"
        stdDeviation="15"/>
    &lt;/filter>
  &lt;/defs>
  &lt;rect
    width="90"
    height="90"
    stroke="green"
    stroke-width="3"
    fill="yellow"
    filter="url(#f1)"/>
&lt;/svg></codeblock></p>
      <p>Here is a reference to a specific <xmlelement>svg</xmlelement> element in a containing XML
        file:</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;fig>
  &lt;title>Figure with SVG Container&lt;/title>
  &lt;svg-container>
    &lt;svgref 
      href="media/svg/svg-library.xml#frag-0001" 
    />
  &lt;/svg-container>
&lt;/fig></codeblock>
      <p>The <filepath>svg-library.xml</filepath> file contains the following
        content:<codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;root>
  &lt;part>
   &lt;svg id="frag-0001"
     xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"
     width="100"
     height="100">
     &lt;defs>
        &lt;filter
          id="f1"
          x="0"
          y="0">
          &lt;feGaussianBlur
            in="SourceGraphic"
            stdDeviation="15"/>
        &lt;/filter>
      &lt;/defs>
      &lt;rect
        width="90"
        height="90"
        stroke="green"
        stroke-width="3"
        fill="yellow"
        filter="url(#f1)"/>
    &lt;/svg>
    &lt;svg id="frag-0002"
       width="4in" height="6in" version="1.1"
          >
          &lt;circle cx="150" cy="200" r="100" fill="url(#grad_blue)" >
            &lt;animate attributeName="r" begin="Go.click" end="Stop.click" dur="4s"  
              values="100; 0; 100" repeatCount="indefinite"/>
          &lt;/circle>
          &lt;radialGradient id="grad_blue" cx="20%" cy="20%" r="100%" fx="30%" fy="30%">
            &lt;stop stop-color="white" offset="0"/>
            &lt;stop stop-color="blue" offset="25%"/>
            &lt;stop stop-color="rgb(0,0,192)" offset="50%"/>
            &lt;stop stop-color="rgb(0,0,127)" offset="70%"/>
            &lt;stop stop-color="rgb(0,0,64)" offset="85%"/>
            &lt;stop stop-color="rgb(0,0,0)" offset="100%"/>
          &lt;/radialGradient>
          &lt;g id="Go">
            &lt;rect x="70" y="320" height="40" width="80" fill="aqua"/>
            &lt;text x="90" y="350" font-size="30" fill="green">Go &lt;/text>
          &lt;/g>
          &lt;g id="Stop">
            &lt;rect x="160" y="320" height="40" width="80" fill="aqua"/>
            &lt;text x="170" y="350" font-size="30" fill="red">Stop&lt;/text>
          &lt;/g>
        &lt;/svg>
  &lt;/part>
&lt;/root></codeblock></p>
    </example>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          href="../attributes/universalAttributes.dita"/>, <xref
          href="../attributes/commonAttributes.dita#common-atts/outputclass"/>, and <xref
          href="../attributes/thekeyrefattribute.dita"><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></xref>. This element
        also uses <xref href="../attributes/linkRelationshipAttributes.dita"/>, with narrowed
        definitions of <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> (given below).</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>href</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Reference to the <xmlelement>svg</xmlelement> element to be used. If the
              <xmlelement>svg</xmlelement> element is the root element of the referenced resource,
            then no fragment identifier is required, otherwise, a fragment identifier must be
            specified, where the fragment identifier is the XML ID of the
              <xmlelement>svg</xmlelement> element to be used. This attribute is not required, but
            must be specified if <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> is not specified. See <xref
              href="../attributes/thehrefattribute.dita"/> for detailed information on supported
            values and processing implications.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>format</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd><ph>The data format of the resource.. For SVG the format should be "svg", which is the
              default value for <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> on this element. </ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
