<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="tasktroubleshooting" xml:lang="en-us" >
  <title><xmlelement>tasktroubleshooting</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc>The <xmlelement>tasktroubleshooting</xmlelement> element provides information designed
    to help users remedy the situation when a task does not complete as expected. In particular,
    this element can be used to explain how users can recover when the results of a task do not
    match those listed in the <xmlelement>result</xmlelement> element. The troubleshooting remedy
    typically contains one or more actions for solving a problem. For complex remedies, link to
    another task.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>tasktroubleshooting</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm>task
          elements<indexterm><xmlelement>tasktroubleshooting</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="section-1">
      <note type="tip">Do not use <codeph rev="public-review-1">&lt;note type="trouble"></codeph>
        inside of <xmlelement>tasktroubleshooting</xmlelement> because its meaning there would be
        ambiguous.</note>
    </section>
    <section id="contains" conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-tasktroubleshooting/contains" otherprops="contains"></section>
    
    <section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance">
      <title>Inheritance</title>
      <p>- topic/section task/tasktroubleshooting </p>
    </section>
    <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example</title>
      <codeblock><![CDATA[
  <steps>
    <step><cmd>...</cmd></step>
    <!-- ... more steps ... -->
  </steps>
  <result>
    <p>The <uicontrol>User Type</uicontrol> menu updates to
      display the new types you added.</p>
  </result>
  <tasktroubleshooting>
    <p>If the User Type menu does not display the additions, try
      one or more of the following:
      <ul>
        <li>Refresh the page</li>
        <li>Verify that <wintitle>Add Types</wintitle> is not
          still open; if so, go to it and press
          <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>.</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
  </tasktroubleshooting>
  <example>
    <p>For example, you could also do xyz.</p>
  </example>
  <postreq>
    <p>Once completed, you need to consider abc.</p>
  </postreq>
]]>
</codeblock>
      
    </example>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/universal-outputclass"/>
      
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>

