<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="taskbody" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement> element is the main body-level element inside a
      task topic. A task body is designed to contain information specific to completing a task, such
      as prerequisites, contextual information, and steps. DITA 1.2 introduced a much looser
         <xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement> content model in order to allow for more variations in
      the structure of a task. A constraint module was also provided in order to maintain
      compatibility with the previous strict model; this constraint is used in the default task
      distributed by OASIS.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm><xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement></indexterm><indexterm>task elements<indexterm><xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="constrained-task-note"><note id="constrained-taskbody-xpl" >Beginning with DITA 1.2, the DTD and Schema
            packages distributed by OASIS contain two task models. The general task model allows two
            additional elements inside the task body (<xmlelement>section</xmlelement> and
               <xmlelement>steps-informal</xmlelement>); it also allows multiple instances and
            varying order for the <xmlelement>prereq</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>context</xmlelement>,
            and <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> elements. The strict task model maintains the order
            and cardinality of the DITA 1.0 and 1.1 <xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement> content model.
            This strict task is implemented with a constraint module.</note><p>Authors
that use the default task DTD or Schema provided by OASIS will continue
to see the strict task model when upgrading to DITA 1.2 or DITA 1.3. Authors wishing
to use the general task model will need to migrate their DITA 1.1
documents to reference the general task document type shell.</p><p>DITA
document type shells that include the task module as-is, or that specialize
the <xmlelement>task</xmlelement> element without specializing <xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement>, will also
need to include the strict taskbody constraint module in order to
maintain the order and cardinality of prior DITA versions.</p><p>Task specializations that specialize the <xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement> element will not be
            affected by the new model, although they <ph >can</ph> be updated
            as needed to take advantage of the new elements.</p></section>
<section conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-taskbody/contains" id="contains" otherprops="contains"></section>



<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance"><title>Inheritance</title><p>-
topic/body task/taskbody </p></section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title><p>See <xref href="task.dita"></xref>.</p></example>
<section id="attributes"><title>Attributes</title>
      <p conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/topic-body"/>
   </section>
</refbody>
</reference>

