<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="dita-troubleshooting-topic" xml:lang="en-us"
 > 
  <title>Troubleshooting topic</title> 
  <shortdesc>The troubleshooting topic type provides markup for corrective action information such
		as troubleshooting and alarm clearing. </shortdesc> 
  <conbody> 
	 <section id="infotype">
			<title>The troubleshooting information type</title>
			<p>In its simplest form, troubleshooting information follows this pattern: </p>
			<ol>
				<li>A condition or symptom. Usually the condition or symptom is an undesirable state
					in a system, a product, or a service that a reader wants to correct. </li>
				<li>A cause for the condition or symptom. </li>
				<li>A remedy for the condition or symptom. </li>
			</ol>
			<p>The troubleshooting topic provides sections for describing the condition, causes, and
				remedies needed to restore a system, a product, or a service to normal. </p>
			<p>For some conditions there could be more than one cause-remedy pair. The
				troubleshooting topic accommodates this. Typically, a cause is immediately followed
				by its remedy. Multiple cause-remedy pairs can provide a series of successive
				fall-backs for resolving a condition. </p>
			<p>Cause and remedy might occur in combinations other than pairs. It is possible to
				have: </p>
			<ul>
				<li>Multiple causes with the same remedy </li>
				<li>A single cause with more than one remedy </li>
				<li>A remedy with no known cause </li>
				<li>A cause with no known remedy </li>
			</ul>
			<p>The troubleshooting information type also can be used to document alarm clearing
				strategies. </p>
		</section> 
	 <section id="structure">
			<title>The structure of the troubleshooting topic</title>
			<p>The top-level element for troubleshooting topics is
					<xmlelement>troubleshooting</xmlelement>. The
					<xmlelement>troubleshooting</xmlelement> element contains a
					<xmlelement>title</xmlelement> with optional alternative titles
					(<xmlelement>titlealts</xmlelement>), a short description or
					<xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement>, a <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement>, a
					<xmlelement>troublebody</xmlelement>, and
				<xmlelement>related-links</xmlelement>. </p>
			<p><xmlelement>troublebody</xmlelement> is the main body element in a troubleshooting
				topic. The <xmlelement>troublebody</xmlelement> element contains the following
				elements: </p>
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlelement>condition</xmlelement>
					</dt>
					<dd>This optional element is the first child of <xmlelement>troublebody</xmlelement>, and it
						describes a condition or symptom that is associated with an undesirable
						state in a system, a product, or a service. In cases where the topic title
						fully explains the condition,<ph rev="public-review-1"> do not use this
							element.</ph></dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlelement>troubleSolution</xmlelement>
					</dt>
					<dd>One or more <xmlelement>troubleSolution</xmlelement> elements must appear  in the
							<xmlelement>troublebody</xmlelement> element.
							<xmlelement>troubleSolution</xmlelement> is a wrapper element for
							<xmlelement>cause</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>remedy</xmlelement>, each
						of which are a cause-remedy pair. </dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
			<p>The <xmlelement>troubleSolution</xmlelement> element contains the following elements: </p>
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlelement>cause</xmlelement>
					</dt>
					<dd>This optional, repeatable, first-child of<xmlelement>condition</xmlelement>
						<xmlelement>troubleSolution</xmlelement> describes a possible cause for the
						condition. </dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlelement>remedy</xmlelement>
					</dt>
					<dd>
						<p>This optional, repeatable, last-child of
								<xmlelement>troubleSolution</xmlelement> describes a possible remedy
							for the condition. </p>
						<p>The <xmlelement>remedy</xmlelement> element begins with an optional
								<xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element followed by an optional
								<xmlelement>responsibleParty</xmlelement> element followed by either
							a <xmlelement>steps</xmlelement> element, a
								<xmlelement>steps-unordered</xmlelement> element, or a
								<xmlelement>steps-informal</xmlelement> element. The content models
							for <xmlelement>steps</xmlelement>,
								<xmlelement>steps-unordered</xmlelement>, and
								<xmlelement>steps-informal</xmlelement> are borrowed from
								<xmlelement>task</xmlelement>. This allows remedy to reuse steps
							from tasks. </p>
					</dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>&lt;responsibleParty&gt; </dt>
					<dd>This optional first child of <xmlelement>remedy</xmlelement> indicates who
						is expected to perform the steps that are outlined in the
							<xmlelement>remedy</xmlelement> element.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
		</section> 
	 <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
			<p>Here is an example of a troubleshooting topic: </p>
			<codeblock>
<![CDATA[<troubleshooting id="nologon">
  <title>Cannot log on</title>
  <shortdesc>Login attempts have failed</shortdesc>
  <troublebody>
    <condition>
      <p>The system does not accept your login credentials.</p>
    </condition>
    <troubleSolution>
      <cause>
        <p>The CapsLock key might be on.</p>
      </cause>
      <remedy><steps-unordered>
        <step>
          <cmd>Verify that the CapsLock key is off.</cmd>
        </step>
      </steps-unordered>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>
    <troubleSolution>
      <cause>
        <title>Wrong password</title>
        <p>The password that you are using does not match the one
          that is stored in the system.</p>
      </cause>
      <remedy id="gotoaccountmanagement">
        <steps>
          <step>
            <cmd>Open a Web browser window</cmd>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>Go to
              <xref href="http://itdept.example.com/reset.html"
                format="html" scope="external">
                Account management</xref>, and follow the
              instructions</cmd>
          </step>
        </steps>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>
    <troubleSolution>
      <cause>
        <title>Unknown account name</title>
        <p>The account name you are using does not match the one
          stored in the system.</p>
      </cause>
      <remedy conref="#nologon/gotoaccountmanagement"/>
    </troubleSolution>
    <troubleSolution>
      <remedy>
        <title>Still cannot log on</title>
        <steps-informal>
          <p>If none of the previous solutions work,
            consider asking for help. Contact your system
            administrator if your organization has one; otherwise,
            contact our support team.</p>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>
  </troublebody>
</troubleshooting>]]>
</codeblock>
		</example>
		<!--<section id="section_A1E4E0CE15B94E0C89740B633491C1DA"><title>Modules</title><p>The following DITA modules are provided for the troubleshooting topic. </p><dl><dlentry><dt>DTD </dt><dd><sl><sli><filepath>troubleshooting.mod</filepath> </sli><sli><filepath>troubleshooting.ent</filepath> </sli></sl></dd></dlentry><dlentry><dt>RelaxNG </dt><dd><draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="7 March 2014">Content needed here </draft-comment></dd></dlentry><dlentry><dt>XSD </dt><dd><sl><sli><filepath>troubleshootingMod.xsd</filepath> </sli><sli><filepath>troubleshootingGrp.xsd</filepath> </sli></sl></dd></dlentry></dl></section>--> 
  </conbody> 
</concept>
