<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="dita_ref_topic"> 
  <title>Reference topic</title> 
  <shortdesc>Reference topics are specialized from topic. They contain the standard topic elements,
		including title, short descriptions or abstract, prolog, a body, and related links. </shortdesc> 
  <conbody> 
	 <section id="purpose">
			<title>Purpose of the reference topic</title>
			<p>Reference topics provide data that supports users as they perform a task. Reference
				topics might provide lists and tables that include product specifications, parts
				lists, and other data that is often “looked up” rather than memorized. A reference
				topic also can describe commands in a programming language or required tools for a
				series of maintenance tasks. </p>
			<p> Reference topics provide quick access to fact-based information. In technical
				information, reference topics are used to list product specifications and
				parameters, provide essential data, and provide detailed information on subjects
				such as the commands in a programming language. Reference topics can contain any
				subject matter that has regular content, such as ingredients for food in recipes,
				bibliographic lists, catalog items, and so on. </p>
		</section> 
	 <section id="structure">
			<title>The structure of the reference topic</title>
			<p>The top-level element for a reference topic is the <xmlelement>reference</xmlelement>
				element. </p>
			<p>The <xmlelement>refbody</xmlelement> element contains the main body-level elements of
				the reference topic. Reference topics limit the body to tables (both simple and
				complex), property lists, syntax sections, generic sections, and examples. </p>
			<p>All of the elements of <xmlelement>refbody</xmlelement> are optional; they <ph
					rev="public-review-1">can</ph> appear in any sequence and number. </p>
		</section> 
	 <section id="limitations">
			<title>Limitations on the reference body</title>
			<p>The <xmlelement>refbody</xmlelement> provides for an unlimited number of subdivisions in the
				form of sections, examples, syntax sections, property lists, and tables.
				<!--However, once an author decides to incorporate a section, example, property list, or syntax section in the <xmlelement>refbody</xmlelement>, only additional sections, examples, property lists, or syntax sections are allowed. -->Simple
				and complex tables <ph rev="public-review-1">can</ph> appear within sections,
				examples, and syntax sections. They <ph rev="public-review-1">cannot</ph> appear
				within the property list or simple or complex table sections. Sections, examples,
				syntax sections, table subdivisions, and property lists <ph rev="public-review-1"
					>cannot</ph> nest; only one level of subdivision is permitted in the reference
				topic. </p>
		</section> 
	 <section id="elements">
			<title>The elements in the reference body </title>
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlelement>section</xmlelement>
					</dt>
					<dd>Represents an organizational division in a reference topic. Sections organize subsets of
						information within a larger topic. You can only include a simple list of
						peer sections in a topic; sections cannot be nested. A section <ph
							rev="public-review-1">might</ph> have an optional title. </dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlelement>refsyn</xmlelement>
					</dt>
					<dd>Contains syntax or signature content (for example, a command-line utility's
						calling syntax or an API's signature). The <xmlelement>refsyn</xmlelement>
						contains a brief, possibly diagrammatic description of the subject's
						interface or high-level structure. </dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlelement>example</xmlelement>
					</dt>
					<dd>Provides examples that illustrate or support the current topic. The
							<xmlelement>example</xmlelement> element has the same content model as
							<xmlelement>section</xmlelement>. </dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlelement>table</xmlelement>
					</dt>
					<dd>Organizes information according into a rows and columns. Table markup also
						allows for more complex structures, including spanning rows and columns, as
						well as table captions. </dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement>
					</dt>
					<dd>Holds information in regular rows and columns and does not allow a caption.
					</dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlelement>properties</xmlelement>
					</dt>
					<dd>Lists properties of a subject and their types, values, and descriptions.
					</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
		</section> 
	 <example id="example" otherprops="examples">Following is an example of a simple reference topic, including the
				<xmlelement>refsyn</xmlelement> element.
			<codeblock>&lt;reference id="boldproperty"&gt;
&lt;title&gt;Bold property&lt;/title&gt;
&lt;shortdesc&gt;(Read-write) Whether to use a bold font for the specified text string.&lt;/shortdesc&gt;
&lt;refbody&gt;
  &lt;refsyn&gt;
    &lt;synph&gt;
      &lt;var&gt;object&lt;/var&gt;&lt;delim&gt;.&lt;/delim&gt;&lt;kwd&gt;Font&lt;/kwd&gt;&lt;delim&gt;.&lt;/delim&gt;
      &lt;kwd&gt;Bold&lt;/kwd&gt;&lt;delim&gt; = &lt;/delim&gt;&lt;var&gt;trueorfalse&lt;/var&gt;
    &lt;/synph&gt;
  &lt;/refsyn&gt;
  &lt;properties&gt;
    &lt;property&gt;
      &lt;proptype&gt;Data type&lt;/proptype&gt;
      &lt;propvalue&gt;Boolean&lt;/propvalue&gt;
    &lt;/property&gt;
    &lt;property&gt;
      &lt;proptype&gt;Legal values&lt;/proptype&gt;
      &lt;propvalue&gt;True (1) or False (0)&lt;/propvalue&gt;
    &lt;/property&gt;
  &lt;/properties&gt;
&lt;/refbody&gt;
&lt;/reference&gt;</codeblock>
		</example> 
	 <example id="example-property" otherprops="examples">Following is an example of a simple reference topic, including the
				<xmlelement>property</xmlelement> element.
			<codeblock>&lt;reference id="oiltypes"&gt;
  &lt;title&gt;Oil Types&lt;/title&gt;
  &lt;shortdesc&gt;The tables provide the recommended oil types.&lt;/shortdesc&gt;
  &lt;refbody&gt;
    &lt;properties&gt;
      &lt;prophead&gt;
        &lt;proptypehd&gt;Oil type&lt;/proptypehd&gt;
        &lt;propvaluehd&gt;Oil brand&lt;/propvaluehd&gt;
        &lt;propdeschd&gt;Appropriate use&lt;/propdeschd&gt;
      &lt;/prophead&gt;
      &lt;property&gt;
        &lt;proptype&gt;Primary oil&lt;/proptype&gt;
        &lt;propvalue&gt;A1X&lt;propvalue&gt;
        &lt;propdesc&gt;Appropriate for one-cylinder engines&lt;/propdesc&gt;
      &lt;/property&gt;
      &lt;property&gt;
        &lt;proptype&gt;Secondary oil&lt;/proptype&gt;
        &lt;propvalue&gt;B2Z&lt;/propvalue&gt;
        &lt;propdesc&gt;Appropriate for two-cylinder engines&lt;/propdesc&gt;
      &lt;/property&gt;
    &lt;/properties&gt;
  &lt;/refbody&gt;
&lt;/reference&gt;</codeblock><!-- jeff ogden: consider adding example output for all
          examples MP response: aim for comprehensive example addition
          in 1.2 -->
		</example>
		<!--<section><title>Modules</title><p>The following DITA modules are provided for the reference topic. </p><sl><sli><filepath>reference.mod</filepath>, <filepath>reference.ent</filepath> (DTD) </sli><sli><filepath>referenceMod.xsd</filepath>, <filepath>referenceGrp.xsd</filepath> (Schema) </sli><sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>referenceMod.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG XML syntax) </sli><sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>referenceMod.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG compact syntax) </sli></sl></section>--> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
