<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="dita_task_topic" xml:lang="en-Us"> 
  <title>Task topic (strict task)</title> 
  <shortdesc>The strict task-document type supports the development of instructions for the
		completion of a procedure. The strict-task document type is built using the general-task
		information type combined with the strict taskbody constraint. See the reference below to
		ensure that you have the correct task document type when you update to DITA 1.3 from DITA
		1.0 or DITA 1.1 </shortdesc> 
  <conbody> 
	 <section id="section_60F00B0ECB0B4D69AA641E9710B1AA60"> 
		<title>The purpose of the standard task information type</title> 
		<p id="p_D5ED1C1C9BB841FDB6488701D3C86FCF">Tasks are the essential
		  building blocks to provide procedural information. A task information type
		  answers the "How do I?" question by providing precise step-by-step instructions
		  detailing the requirements that must be fulfilled, the actions that must be
		  performed, and the order in which the actions must be performed. The
		  <xmlelement>task</xmlelement> topic includes sections for describing the
		  context, prerequisites, expected results, and other aspects of a task.
		</p> 
	 </section> 
	 <section id="section_709331EA92CE484FBEC8274342823932"> 
		<title>The structure of the <xmlelement>task</xmlelement> topic</title> 
		<p id="p_14C0AF0152D04AC8A70306B49E22D705">The
		  <xmlelement>task</xmlelement> element is the top-level element for the strict
		  task topic. The strict task document type contains a
		  <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> and a <xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement> with
		  optional alternative titles (<xmlelement>titlealts</xmlelement>), a short
		  description or <xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement>, a
		  <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement>, and <xmlelement>related-links</xmlelement>.
		</p> 
		<p id="p_9286DB98E2CD47D0A53B40DFB0049E0C">The
		  <xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement> element is the main body element inside a
		  strict task document type. The strict task body has a constrained structure,
		  with these optional elements in the following order: 
		</p> 
		<dl> 
		  <dlentry> 
			 <dt><xmlelement>prereq</xmlelement>
			 </dt> 
			 <dd>Describes information that the user needs to know or do before starting the immediate task.
						This section <ph rev="public-review-1">can</ph> occur only once. </dd> 
		  </dlentry> 
		  <dlentry> 
			 <dt><xmlelement>context</xmlelement>
			 </dt> 
			 <dd>Provides background information for the task. This information helps the users understand
						the purpose of the task and what they will gain by completing the task
						correctly. This section should be brief and does not replace or recreate a
						concept topic on the same subject, although the context section <ph
							rev="public-review-1">might</ph> include some conceptual information.
						This section <ph rev="public-review-1">can</ph> occur only once. </dd> 
		  </dlentry> 
		  <dlentry> 
			 <dt><xmlelement>steps</xmlelement>
			 </dt> 
			 <dd>Provides the main content of the task topic. A <xmlelement>task</xmlelement> consists of a
						series of steps that accomplish the task. The <xmlelement>steps</xmlelement>
						element must have one or more <xmlelement>step</xmlelement> elements, which
						provide the specifics about each step in the task. The
							<xmlelement>steps</xmlelement> element <ph rev="public-review-1"
							>can</ph> occur only once. <p id="p_510ED5C99C6A4A38958D579C3E8ABBC2"
							>The <xmlelement>step</xmlelement> element represents an action that a
							user must follow to accomplish a task. Each
								<xmlelement>step</xmlelement> in a <xmlelement>task</xmlelement>
							must contain a command <xmlelement>cmd</xmlelement> element which
							describes the particular action the user must perform to accomplish the
							overall task. The <xmlelement>step</xmlelement> element <ph
								rev="public-review-1">can</ph> also contain information
								<xmlelement>info</xmlelement>, substeps
								<xmlelement>substeps</xmlelement>, tutorial information
								<xmlelement>tutorialinfo</xmlelement>, a step example
								<xmlelement>stepxmp</xmlelement>, choices
								<xmlelement>choices</xmlelement>, a step result
								<xmlelement>stepresult</xmlelement><ph>, or troubleshooting
									<xmlelement>steptroubleshooting</xmlelement></ph>, although
							these are optional. </p>
					</dd> 
		  </dlentry> 
		  <dlentry> 
			 <dt><xmlelement>steps-unordered</xmlelement>
			 </dt> 
			 <dd>Provides alternative content for the
				<xmlelement>task</xmlelement> topic, allowing for a single step in a procedure
				or a set of commands that need not be performed in a specific order.
			 </dd> 
		  </dlentry> 
		  <dlentry> 
			 <dt><xmlelement>result</xmlelement>
			 </dt> 
			 <dd>Describes the expected outcome for the task as a whole. 
			 </dd> 
		  </dlentry> 
		  <dlentry> 
			 <dt><xmlelement>example</xmlelement>
			 </dt> 
			 <dd>Provides an example that illustrates or supports the task. 
			 </dd> 
		  </dlentry> 
		  <dlentry> 
			 <dt><xmlelement>postreq</xmlelement>
			 </dt> 
			 <dd>Describes steps or tasks that the user should do after the
				successful completion of the current task. It is often supported by links to
				the next task or tasks in the <xmlelement>related-links</xmlelement> section.
			 </dd> 
		  </dlentry> 
		</dl> 
	 </section> 
	 <example id="example_FED73E89CAC4497D8AC70B96F247C79F" otherprops="examples">Here is an example
		of a task topic:
		<codeblock>&lt;task id="birdhousebuilding"&gt;
    &lt;title&gt;Building a bird house&lt;/title&gt;
    &lt;shortdesc&gt;Building a birdhouse is a perfect activity 
    for adults to share with their children or grandchildren. 
    It can be used to teach about birds, as well as the proper use of tools.
    &lt;/shortdesc&gt;
 &lt;taskbody&gt;
  &lt;context&gt;Birdhouses provide safe locations for birds to build nests and raise their young. They also provide shelter during cold and rainy spells.&lt;/context&gt;
  &lt;prereq&gt;To build a sound birdhouse, you will need a complete set of tools:
  &lt;ul&gt;&lt;li&gt;hand saw&lt;/li&gt;
      &lt;li&gt;hammer ... &lt;/li&gt;
  &lt;/ul&gt;&lt;/prereq&gt;
 &lt;steps&gt;
   &lt;step&gt;&lt;cmd&gt;Lay out the dimensions for the birdhouse elements.&lt;/cmd&gt;&lt;/step&gt;
   &lt;step&gt;&lt;cmd&gt;Cut the elements to size.&lt;/cmd&gt;&lt;/step&gt;
   &lt;step&gt;&lt;cmd&gt;Drill a 1 1/2" diameter hole for the bird entrance on the front.&lt;/cmd&gt;
         &lt;info&gt;You need to look at the drawing for the correct placement of the 
               hole.&lt;/info&gt;&lt;/step&gt;
   &lt;!--...--&gt;
  &lt;/steps&gt;
  &lt;result&gt;You now have a beautiful new birdhouse!&lt;/result&gt;
  &lt;postreq&gt;Now find a good place to mount it.&lt;/postreq&gt;
 &lt;/taskbody&gt;
&lt;/task&gt;</codeblock>
	 </example> 
	 <section id="section_5D9B27D18233424697CB9520A79126D0"> 
		<title>Maintaining specializations using the strict task model</title> 
		<p id="p_E1DCE778C2C643D2881255B33FCD9055">Organizations that have created specializations based
				on the DITA 1.0 and 1.1 strict task model <ph rev="public-review-1">can</ph> review
				the recommendations in <xref href="../../non-normative/migration-1.1-to-1.2.dita"/>
				<ph rev="public-review-1">for information about how</ph> to maintain their
				specializations. </p> 
	 </section>
		<!--<section id="section_A5353AF30F324A64AB125FFF88B7E3D4"><title>Modules</title><p id="p_F14827B364F5411DB2F33DAF5278DE0A">The following DITA modules are provided for the task topic. </p><sl><sli><filepath>task.mod</filepath>, <filepath>task.ent</filepath>, <filepath>strictTaskbodyConstraint.mod</filepath> (DTD) </sli><sli><filepath>taskMod.xsd</filepath>, <filepath>taskGrp.xsd</filepath>, <filepath>strictTaskbodyConstraintMod.xsd</filepath> (Schema) </sli><sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>taskMod.rng</filepath>, <filepath>strictTaskbodyConstraint.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG XML syntax) </sli><sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>taskMod.rnc</filepath>, <filepath>strictTaskbodyConstraint.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG compact syntax) </sli></sl></section>--> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
