<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="dita_spec_intro_bookmap">
  <title>Bookmap</title>
  <shortdesc>The DITA bookmap specialization represents the key markup requirements for managing
    DITA content through book-oriented publication processes, including book metadata and book
    structures for organizing content.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <section id="purpose">
      <title>The purpose of the bookmap specialization</title>
      <p>Books and other printed media are popular ways to present DITA content. By specializing the
        general DITA map structure into the general structure and subject areas used by most
        book-oriented DTDs, bookmaps enable users to organize their DITA information into front
        matter, parts, chapters, and so forth. A rich set of metadata allows for recording
        information about the book, such as its authors and owners, versions, and production
        history.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="structure">
      <title>The structure of the bookmap specialization</title>
      <p>The <xmlelement>bookmap</xmlelement> element is the top-level element for a DITA bookmap.
        Most of the content for a bookmap is optional, allowing for specializations that further
        restrict the bookmap model.</p>
      <p>A bookmap allows the following parts:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>An initial title or booktitle (booktitle has more semantics)</li>
        <li>Book metadata (publisher, author, copyright holders and dates, etc.)</li>
        <li>Front matter (placement for Table of Contents and other preliminary information) </li>
        <li>Any number of chapters or parts (parts can group chapters, chapters can group
          topics)</li>
        <li>An appendices section (similar to a part or a chapter, can group multiple
          appendices)</li>
        <li>Back matter (similar to front matter, notices, glossary, index, etc.)</li>
        <li>Relationship table</li>
      </ul>
      <p>In book-oriented XML grammars, authors typically manage content structures as external
        entities, separate from the body of the book and referenced as embedded elements into the
        overall structure. Bookmap follows the same organizational approach, using the
        topicref-based structure of DITA maps as the archetype for the major divisions of a
        book.</p>
    </section>
    <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <p>Here is an example of a simple bookmap. It uses several mechanisms to include chapter
        content:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Referencing a DITA map</li>
        <li>Referencing a DITA topic</li>
        <li>Nesting <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements</li>
      </ul>
      <codeblock>&lt;bookmap id="taskbook">
  &lt;booktitle>
    &lt;mainbooktitle>Product tasks&lt;/mainbooktitle>
    &lt;booktitlealt>Tasks and what they do&lt;/booktitlealt>
  &lt;/booktitle>
  &lt;bookmeta>
    &lt;author>John Doe&lt;/author>
    &lt;bookrights>
      &lt;copyrfirst>
        &lt;year>2006&lt;/year>
      &lt;/copyrfirst>
      &lt;bookowner>
        &lt;person href="task_preface.dita">Jane Doe&lt;/person>
      &lt;/bookowner>
    &lt;/bookrights>
  &lt;/bookmeta>
  &lt;frontmatter>
    &lt;preface/>
  &lt;/frontmatter>
  &lt;chapter format="ditamap" href="installing.ditamap"/>
  &lt;chapter href="configuring.dita"/>
  &lt;chapter href="maintaining.dita">
    &lt;topicref href="maintainstorage.dita"/>
    &lt;topicref href="maintainserver.dita"/>
    &lt;topicref href="maintaindatabase.dita"/>
  &lt;/chapter>
  &lt;appendix href="task_appendix.dita"/>
  &lt;/bookmap></codeblock>
    </example>
    <!--<section><title>Modules</title><p>The following DITA modules are provided for the bookmap specialization.</p><sl><sli><filepath>bookmap.dtd</filepath>, <filepath>bookmap.ent</filepath>, <filepath>bookmap.mod</filepath> (DTD)</sli><sli><filepath>bookmap.xsd,</filepath> <filepath>bookmapGrp.xsd</filepath>, <filepath>bookmapMod.xsd</filepath> (Schema)</sli><sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>bookmap.rng</filepath>, <filepath>bookmapMod.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG XML syntax)</sli><sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>bookmap.rnc</filepath>, <filepath>bookmapMod.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG compact syntax)</sli></sl></section>-->
  </conbody>
</concept>

