<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="dita_spec_2_1_info_tasks" xml:lang="en-us">
     <title>Machinery task topic</title>
     <shortdesc>The machinery task document type supports the development of instructions for the
          completion of a procedure. The machinery task document type is built using the general
          task information type combined with the Machinery Taskbody Constraint.</shortdesc>
     <conbody>
          <section id="purpose">
               <title>The purpose of the machinery task information type</title>
               <p>The machinery-task is designed to provide procedural information, similar to the
                    strict task topic, and has a well-defined semantic structure that describes how
                    to perform the steps required to accomplish a specific goal. Compared to the
                    strict task information type, the machinery-task information type contains
                    additional descriptive elements in the prelreqs section that add detail to the
                    pre-requisites required to perform a task. The machinery-task topic is developed
                    using the DITA constraint mechanism, in addition to specializations for new
                    elements. </p>
               <p>Machinery tasks are the essential building blocks to provide procedural
                    information for machines, machinery equipment, assemblies, and apparatuses. A
                    machinery-task information type answers the "How do I?" question by providing
                    precise step-by-step instructions detailing the requirements that must be
                    fulfilled, the actions that must be performed, and the order in which the
                    actions must be performed. The machinery-task topic includes sections for
                    describing the context, preliminary requirements, expected results, examples,
                    closing requirements, and other aspects of a task. </p>
          </section>
          <section id="structure">
               <title>The structure of the machinery-task topic</title>
               <p>Similar to a strict DITA task, the <xmlelement>task</xmlelement> element is the top-level element for
                    a machinery task topic. The machinery task document type contains a title and a
                    taskbody with optional alternative titles (titlealts), a short description or
                    abstract, a prolog,and related-links.</p>
               <p>The <xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement> element is the main body element inside a machinery-task topic.
                    A machinery-task body has a very specific structure, with the following elements
                    in this order: (&lt;prelreqs> or <xmlelement>context</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>section</xmlelement>)*, <xmlelement>steps</xmlelement>,
                    <xmlelement>result</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>example</xmlelement>, and <xmlelement>closereqs</xmlelement>. Each of the body sections is
                    optional.</p>
               <p>The machinery task includes two specialized element groups: <xmlelement>prelreqs</xmlelement> and
                    <xmlelement>closereqs</xmlelement>. All other element groups are the same as the general task
                    model.</p>
               <dl>
                    <dlentry>
                         <dt>&lt;prelreqs></dt>
                         <dd>The preliminary-requirements section of a task is used to describe what
                              the user needs to know or do before starting the immediate task. The
                              <xmlelement>prelreqs</xmlelement> element is similar to the prerequisites section of the
                              general task model but contains a more descriptive content model. The
                              <xmlelement>prelreqs</xmlelement> element contains required conditions, required
                              personnel, required equipment, supplies, spares, and safety
                              information. </dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                         <dt>&lt;closereqs></dt>
                         <dd>The close-requirements section is used to describe conditions that must
                              be fulfilled after the successful completion of the current task. It
                              is often supported by links to the next task or tasks in the
                              <xmlelement>related-links</xmlelement> section. The <xmlelement>closereqs</xmlelement> element contains
                              required conditions <xmlelement>reqconds</xmlelement>.</dd>
                    </dlentry>
               </dl>
          </section>
          <!--<section><title>Modules</title><p>The following DITA modules are provided for the machinery task topic.</p><sl><sli><filepath>machineryTask.dtd</filepath>, <filepath>machineryTaskbodyConstraint.mod</filepath> (DTD)</sli><sli><filepath>machineryTask.xsd</filepath>, <filepath>machineryTaskbodyConstraintMod.xsd</filepath>, <filepath>machineryTaskbodyConstraintIntMod.xsd</filepath> (Schema)</sli><sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>machineryTask.rng</filepath>, <filepath>machineryTaskbodyConstraint.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG XML syntax)</sli><sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>machineryTask.rnc</filepath>, <filepath>machineryTaskbodyConstraint.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG compact syntax)</sli></sl></section>-->
     </conbody>
</concept>

