<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="dita_generic_task_topic" xml:lang="en-US">
	<title>General task topic</title>
	<shortdesc>The general-task document type was introduced in DITA 1.2. It provides a less-strict
		content model for task-oriented information than was available previously. Some
		organizations might prefer the general-task content model over the strict task model, as it
		can facilitate the migration of legacy content that does not follow the strict-task topic
		model. The general-task document type serves as the base for the strict-task and
		machine-industry-task document types. It also can be used to create new document types or
		specializations. </shortdesc>
	<conbody>
		<section id="section_4B12CAE12AF84259B9DED26BC5F9FEDE">
			<title>The purpose of the general task information type</title>
			<p>Like the DITA strict task document type, the general task document and information
				types contain the essential building blocks to provide procedural information. Both
				task information types answer the "How do I?" question by providing step-by-step
				instructions that detail the requirements that must be fulfilled, the actions that
				must be performed, and the order in which the actions must be performed. Both task
				topics include sections for describing the context, prerequisites, expected results,
				and other aspects of a task. </p>
			<p id="p_14C11461E6164EEDB93CDECE17D657C5">The general task information type is
				specifically designed to accommodate task specializations that differ from the DITA
				task information type. It might also be used for the conversion of loosely
				structured tasks from other sources into DITA before they are restructured to follow
				the more restrictive DITA task model. </p>
		</section>
		<section id="section_0C8A068CDF1D498F9FF534D3CE88CF2F">
			<title>The structure of the general task topic</title>
			<p id="p_366CB29A7238470BA9070488F953FBDD">The <xmlelement>task</xmlelement> element is
				the top-level element for the general task topic. The general task topic contains a
					<xmlelement>title</xmlelement> and a <xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement> with
				optional alternative titles (<xmlelement>titlealts</xmlelement>), a short
				description or <xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement>, a <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement>,
				and <xmlelement>related-links</xmlelement>. </p>
			<p id="p_7262A46437C34654BD4E46DC49BC6FD4">The following elements are described here
				because they are introduced as part of the general task model. All other elements
				are described in the strict task topic. </p>
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlelement>section</xmlelement>
					</dt>
					<dd>Represents an organizational division in a task topic. Sections organize
						subsets of information within the larger topic. Sections <ph>cannot</ph> be
						nested. A section <ph>can</ph> have an optional
							<xmlelement>title</xmlelement>. </dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlelement>steps-informal</xmlelement>
					</dt>
					<dd>Describes procedural task information that would not normally be ordered as
							<xmlelement>steps</xmlelement>, such as a group of general procedures
						that <ph>might</ph> all be applied in a particular situation. Instead of
							<xmlelement>step</xmlelement>, the
							<xmlelement>steps-informal</xmlelement> element uses
							<xmlelement>ol</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>ul</xmlelement> elements,
						which are less strictly defined than the <xmlelement>step</xmlelement>
						element. When converting legacy content, it <ph>might</ph> be simpler to
						convert numbered lists to <xmlelement>ol</xmlelement> elements than to
							<xmlelement>step</xmlelement> elements. </dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
		</section>
		<section id="section_9CD7027683F049709DD7BCD431B421D8">
			<title>Comparison of general and strict task </title>
			<p id="p_5533CE00385F44929D16A29C78727AF9">The following table compares the structures
				of general and strict task: </p>
			<table id="table_D297CDD1D8B24415A28A74A37372B423">
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1"/>
					<colspec colname="col2"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry valign="top">General taskbody </entry>
							<entry valign="top">Strict taskbody constraint </entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>prerequisite (optional, in any order, any number) </entry>
							<entry>prerequisite (optional, one only, must precede context) </entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>context (optional, in any order, any number) </entry>
							<entry>context (optional, one only, must follow prerequisite) </entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>section (optional, in any order, any number) </entry>
							<entry>(not defined for strict taskbody) </entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>steps </entry>
							<entry>steps </entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>steps-unordered </entry>
							<entry>steps-unordered </entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>steps-informal </entry>
							<entry>(not defined for strict taskbody) </entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>result (optional, one only, precedes example) </entry>
							<entry>result (optional, one only, precedes example) </entry>
						</row>
						<row rev="errata-01">
							<entry>tasktroubleshooting (optional, one only)</entry>
							<entry>tasktroubleshooting (optional, one only)</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>example (optional, any number, precedes post-req) </entry>
							<entry>example (optional, one only, precedes post-req) </entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>post-requisite (optional, any number) </entry>
							<entry>post-requisite (optional, one only) </entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
		</section>
		<!--<section id="section_775B8F7510FF4281AB4CB26AA3508D99"><title>Modules</title><p id="p_4DFD5C03379544B19294DB24B0BB12E5">The following DITA modules are provided for the task topic. </p><sl><sli><filepath>task.mod</filepath>, <filepath>task.ent</filepath> (DTD) </sli><sli><filepath>taskMod.xsd</filepath>, <filepath>taskGrp.xsd</filepath> (Schema) </sli><sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>taskMod.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG XML syntax) </sli><sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>taskMod.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG compact syntax) </sli></sl></section>-->
	</conbody>
</concept>
