<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="lcCorrectResponse" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title><xmlelement>lcCorrectResponse</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc >The <xmlelement>lcCorrectResponse</xmlelement> element
    was deprecated in DITA version 1.3. It was replaced with the
      <xmlelement>lcCorrectResponse2</xmlelement> element. It was originally intended to indicate
    a correct response in an assessment interaction. </shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>lcCorrectResponse</indexterm>
        <indexterm>learning and training
          elements<indexterm>lcCorrectResponse</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="section-1">
      <p>In an <xmlelement>lcHotspot</xmlelement> interaction, indicate the correct hotspot by
        setting the <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> attribute of <xmlelement>lcCorrectResponse</xmlelement>
        to the id of the "correct" area in the image map.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="contains" conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-lcCorrectResponse/contains" otherprops="contains"></section>
    


    <section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance">
      <title>Inheritance</title>
      <p>+ topic/data learningInteractionBase-d/data learning-d/lcCorrectResponse </p>
    </section>
    <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example</title>
      <codeblock>
..
    &lt;lcAnswerOption>
    &lt;lcAnswerContent>True&lt;/lcAnswerContent>
      &lt;lcCorrectResponse/>
    &lt;/lcAnswerOption>
...
  </codeblock>
    </example>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          href="../attributes/universalAttributes.dita"/>, <xref
          href="../attributes/commonAttributes.dita#common-atts/outputclass"/>, and the attributes
        defined below.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>name</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>The name used to indicate this data. The default value for this attribute is
            "lcCorrectResponse".</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>value</xmlatt>
            <ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/required-attr"/></dt>
          <dd>The value. In an <xmlelement>lcHotspot</xmlelement> interaction, set the value to the
            id corresponding to the correct area in the image map.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>