<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="lcSequence" xml:lang="en-us" audience="">
  <title><xmlelement>lcSequence</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc >The <xmlelement>lcSequence</xmlelement> element was
    deprecated in DITA version 1.3. It was replaced with the <xmlelement>lcSequence2</xmlelement>
    element. It was originally intended provide the position of a sequence option in a sequence. </shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>lcSequence</indexterm>
        <indexterm>learning and training elements<indexterm>lcSequence</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="contains" conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-lcSequence/contains" otherprops="contains"></section>
    


    <section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance">
      <title>Inheritance</title>
      <p>+ topic/data learningInteractionBase-d/data learning-d/lcSequence </p>
    </section>
    <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example</title>
      <codeblock>
      &lt;lcSequencing id="sequencing">
        &lt;title>Sequencing City Populations in the U.S.&lt;/title>
        &lt;lcQuestion>Order the following U.S. cities according to population, from
          largest to smallest.&lt;/lcQuestion>
        &lt;lcSequenceOptionGroup>
          &lt;lcSequenceOption>
            &lt;lcAnswerContent>Portland, Oregon&lt;/lcAnswerContent>
            &lt;lcSequence name="lcSequence" value="2"/>
          &lt;/lcSequenceOption>
          &lt;lcSequenceOption>
            &lt;lcAnswerContent>Chicago, Illinois&lt;/lcAnswerContent>
            &lt;lcSequence name="lcSequence" value="1"/>
          &lt;/lcSequenceOption>
          &lt;lcSequenceOption>
            &lt;lcAnswerContent>Portland, Maine&lt;/lcAnswerContent>
            &lt;lcSequence name="lcSequence" value="4"/>
          &lt;/lcSequenceOption>
          &lt;lcSequenceOption>
            &lt;lcAnswerContent>Syracuse, New York&lt;/lcAnswerContent>
            &lt;lcSequence name="lcSequence" value="3"/>
          &lt;/lcSequenceOption>
        &lt;/lcSequenceOptionGroup>
        &lt;lcFeedbackIncorrect>No, try again, please.     &lt;/lcFeedbackIncorrect>
        &lt;lcFeedbackCorrect>Very good.&lt;/lcFeedbackCorrect>
      &lt;/lcSequencing>
  </codeblock>
    </example>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          href="../attributes/universalAttributes.dita"/>, <xref
          href="../attributes/commonAttributes.dita#common-atts/outputclass"/>, and the attributes
        defined below.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>name</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>The name used to indicate this data. The default value for this attribute is
            "lcSequence".</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>value</xmlatt>
            <ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/required-attr"/></dt>
          <dd>The position of an option in a sequence of options. The value <term
              outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> be a number.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
