<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "../../../dtd/reference.dtd">
<reference id="lcTime"  xml:lang="en-us">
	<title><xmlelement>lcTime</xmlelement></title>
	<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>lcTime</xmlelement> specifies the time expected to complete an activity. You can specify the time both as text to display to the user and as an attribute value that follows a specific time format.</shortdesc>
	<prolog>
		<metadata>
			<keywords>
				<indexterm>lcTime</indexterm><indexterm>learning and training elements<indexterm>lcTime</indexterm></indexterm>
			</keywords>
		</metadata>
	</prolog>
	<refbody>
		<section id="contains" conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-lcTime/contains" otherprops="contains"></section>
		
		<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance">
			<title>Inheritance</title><p>- topic/data learningBase/lcTime </p>
		</section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples">
  <title>Example</title>
  <codeblock>
&lt;learningOverview id=&quot;overview&quot;&gt;
  &lt;title&gt;Learning Overview topic&lt;/title&gt;
  &lt;learningOverviewbody&gt;
    &lt;lcDuration&gt;&lt;title&gt;Duration&lt;/title&gt;
      &lt;lcTime name="lcTime" value="PT15M"&gt;15 minutes&lt;/lcTime&gt;
   &lt;/lcDuration&gt;  
  &lt;/learningOverviewbody&gt;
&lt;/learningOverview&gt;
  </codeblock>
</example>
<section id="attributes">
<title>Attributes</title>
			<p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
					href="../attributes/universalAttributes.dita"/>, <xref
					href="../attributes/commonAttributes.dita#common-atts/outputclass"/>, and the
				attributes defined below.</p>
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>name</xmlatt></dt>
					<dd>Name of the metadata being specified. The default value for this attribute is
						"lcTime".</dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>value</xmlatt>
						<ph
							conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/required-attr"
						/></dt>
					<dd>The time expected to complete the activity. There is no assumed time-specific data format
						or type for the time value.</dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>datatype</xmlatt>
					</dt>
					<dd>Provides a specific data type for the time value, if needed. The default value is string
						"TimeValue".</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl> 
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
