<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="reuse_file" xml:lang="en-us">
        <title>Reuse file</title>
        <shortdesc>This file contains elements used by multiple files in the DITA
                specification.</shortdesc>
        <conbody>
                <section id="section-1">
                        <title>Short descriptions for archSpec topics</title>
                        <!--Also used in "Basic concepts" topic-->
                        <p><ph id="topics-shortdesc">In DITA, a topic is the basic unit of authoring
          and reuse. All DITA topics have the same basic structure: a title and, optionally, a body
          of content. <ph product="part-2">Topics can be generic or more specialized; specialized
            topics represent more specific information types or semantic roles, for example,
              <xmlelement>concept</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>task</xmlelement>, or
              <xmlelement>reference</xmlelement></ph></ph></p>
                        <p><ph id="maps-shortdesc">DITA maps are documents that organize topics and
          other resources into structured collections of information. DITA maps specify hierarchy
          and the relationships among the topics; they also provide the <ph>contexts</ph> in which
          keys are defined and resolved.</ph></p>
                        <p><ph id="information-typing-shortdesc">Information typing is the practice
          of identifying types of topics, such as concept, reference, and task, to clearly
          distinguish between different types of information. Topics that answer different reader
          questions (How do I? What is?) can be categorized with different information types. The
          base information types provided by DITA specializations (for example, technical content,
          machine industry, and learning and training) provide starter sets of information types
          that can be adopted immediately by many technical and business-related
        organizations.</ph></p>
                        <p><ph id="linking-shortdesc">DITA depends heavily on links. The purposes
                                        for which it provides links include defining the content and
                                        organization of publication structures (DITA maps),
                                        topic-to-topic navigation links and cross references, and
                                        reuse of content by reference. All DITA links use the same
                                        addressing mechanisms, either URI-based addresses or
                                        indirect addresses using keys and key references.</ph></p>
                        <p><ph id="addressing-shortdesc" >DITA provides two
          addressing mechanisms. DITA addresses either are direct URI-based addresses, or they are
          indirect key-based addresses. Within DITA documents, individual elements are addressed by
          unique identifiers specified on the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute. DITA defines two
          fragment-identifier syntaxes; one is the full fragment-identifier syntax, and the other is
          an abbreviated fragment-identifier syntax that can be used when addressing non-topic
          elements from within the same topic.</ph></p>
                        <p><ph id="conref-shortdesc">The DITA <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>,
            <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt>, and <xmlatt 
            >conaction</xmlatt> attributes provide mechanisms for reusing content within DITA topics
          or maps. <ph >These mechanisms can be used both to <ph 
              >pull and push</ph> content.</ph></ph></p>
                        <p><ph id="conditional-processing-shortdesc">Conditional processing, also
                                        known as profiling, is the filtering or flagging of
                                        information based on processing-time
                                        criteria.<!--Attribute-based profiling, also known as conditional processing or applicability, is the use of classifying metadata that enables the filtering, flagging, searching, indexing, and other processing based on the association of an element with one or more values in a specific classification domain.--></ph></p>
                        <p><ph id="configuration-shortdesc">A document type shell is an XML grammar
          file that specifies the elements and attributes that are allowed in a DITA document. The
          document type shell integrates structural modules, domain modules, and constraint modules.
          In addition, a document type shell specifies whether and how topics can nest.</ph></p>
                        <p><ph id="specialization-shortdesc">The specialization feature of DITA
          allows for the creation of new element types and attributes that are explicitly and
          formally derived from existing types. This facilitates interchange of conforming DITA
          content and ensures a minimum level of common processing for all DITA content. It also
          allows specialization-aware processors to add specialization-specific processing to
          existing base processing. </ph></p>
                        <p><ph id="contraints-shortdesc">Constraint modules define additional
                                        constraints for vocabulary modules in order to restrict
                                        content models or attribute lists for specific element
                                        types, remove certain extension elements from an integrated
                                        domain module, or replace base element types with
                                        domain-provided, extension element types.</ph></p>
      <p><ph id="coding-req-topic-type-modules-shortdesc">Topic-type vocabulary modules <term
            outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> conform to additional coding
          requirements for defining <term>default topic nesting</term>. Default topic nesting
          defines whether topics are permitted to nest and what topic types are permitted to
          nest.</ph></p>
      <p><ph id="keys-scopes-and-key-precedence-shortdesc">For purposes of key definition
          precedence, the scope-qualified key definitions from a child scope are considered to occur
          at the location of the scope-defining element within the parent scope.</ph></p>
                </section>

                <section id="section-2">
                        <title>Short descriptions for langRef topics</title>
                        <lines>
                          <!-- Short description for language reference edition topic -->
<ph id="langRef-shortdesc">The language reference portion of the DITA specification contains a topic for each DITA element. The topic defines the element, its inheritance hierarchy, and provides examples of usage. This portion of the DITA specification also includes information about DITA attributes.</ph>
</lines>
                </section>
                <section id="section-3">
                        <title>Code blocks</title>
                        <codeblock id="concept-codeblock">&lt;topic id="concept"&gt;
 &lt;title&gt;Introduction to bird calling&lt;/title&gt;
 &lt;shortdesc&gt;If you want to attract more birds to your Acme Bird Feeder,
learn the art of bird calling. Bird calling is an efficient way
to alert more birds to the presence of your bird feeder.&lt;/shortdesc&gt;
 &lt;body&gt;
   &lt;p&gt;Bird calling requires learning:&lt;/p&gt;
   &lt;ul&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;Popular and classical bird songs&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;How to whistle like a bird&lt;/li&gt;
   &lt;/ul&gt;
 &lt;/body&gt;
&lt;/topic&gt;</codeblock>
                </section>
                <section id="section-4">
                        <title>Lists</title>
                        <ul id="cascading-attributes">
<li><xmlatt>rev</xmlatt></li>
<li><ph id="propsAndSpecializations"><xmlatt>props</xmlatt> and any attribute specialized from
<xmlatt>props</xmlatt> (including those integrated by default in OASIS shells:
<xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>,
<xmlatt>product</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt>)</ph></li>
                                <li><xmlatt>linking</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt>,
            <xmlatt>search</xmlatt></li>
                                <li><xmlatt>format</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt>,
                                                <xmlatt>type</xmlatt></li>
                                <li><xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt>,
                                                <xmlatt>translate</xmlatt></li>
                                <li><xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt></li>
                                <li ><xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt></li>
                        </ul>
                        <dl>
                                <dlentry  id="deliveryTarget">
                                        <dt><xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt></dt>
                                        <dd><ph id="deliveryTarget-simpleDefinition">The intended
              delivery target of the content, for example, <keyword>html</keyword>,
                <keyword>pdf</keyword>, or <keyword>epub</keyword>.</ph><p>The
                <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt> attribute is specialized from the
                <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attribute. It is defined in the deliveryTargetAttDomain,
              which is integrated into all OASIS-provided document-type shells. If this domain is
              not integrated into a given document-type shell, the <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>
              attribute will not be available.</p></dd>
                                </dlentry>
                        </dl>
                        <dl id="cascade-values">
                                <dlentry>
                                        <dt><codeph>cascade="merge"</codeph></dt>
                                        <dd>The metadata attributes cascade; the values of the
                                                metadata attributes are additive. This is the
                                                processing default for the <xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt>
                                                attribute and was the only defined behavior for DITA
                                                1.2 and earlier.</dd>
                                </dlentry>
                                <dlentry>
                                        <dt><codeph>cascade="nomerge"</codeph></dt>
                                        <dd>The metadata attributes cascade; however, they are not
            additive for <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements that specify a different value
            for a specific metadata attribute. If the cascading value for an attribute is already
            merged based on multiple ancestor elements, that merged value continues to cascade until
            a new value is encountered (that is, setting <codeph>cascade="nomerge"</codeph> does not
            undo merging that took place on ancestors).</dd>
                                </dlentry>
                        </dl>
                </section>
<section id="definitions">
<title>Reused definitions</title>
<ul id="ul_mtt_k4g_thb">
<li><ph id="definitionChunkCombine">The <keyword>combine</keyword> token in <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt>
            is intended for cases where a publishing process normally results in a single output
            artifact for each source XML document. When some or all of those source XML documents
            are better presented as a single output artifact, setting
              <codeph>chunk="combine"</codeph> instructs a processor to combine the referenced
            source documents for rendering purposes.</ph></li>
<li><ph id="definitionChunkSplit">The <keyword>split</keyword> token in <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> is
            intended for cases where a publishing process normally results in a single output
            artifact for each single source XML document, regardless of how many DITA topics exist
            within each source document. When a source XML document containing many topics is better
            rendered as multiple output artifacts, setting <codeph>chunk="split"</codeph> instructs
            a processor to split each topic from the referenced source document into its own
            document for rendering purposes.</ph></li>
</ul>
</section>

                <section id="section-5">
                        <title>Notes</title>
      <note id="deprecated-print-attribute">Beginning with DITA 1.3, the <xmlatt>print</xmlatt>
        attribute is deprecated. It is replaced with a conditional processing attribute:
          <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>. See <xref keyref="attributes-metadata/deliveryTarget"
            ><xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt></xref> for more details.</note>
                        <note id="mapref-with-child-elements">If a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
                                element that references a map contains child
                                        <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements, the processing
                                behavior regarding the child <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
                                elements is undefined.</note>
      <!--<note id="learning1learning2">DITA 1.3 defines two new domains for describing learning and training interactions: learningInteractionBase2Domain and learning2Domain. These two new domains mirror the DITA 1.2 learningInteractionBase and general learning domains, but the new versions provide support for multi-paragraph questions, answers, and feedback. The new domains are otherwise semantically identical to the original domains. For backwards compatibility, both interactions domains are supported in DITA 1.3. For new content, use the DITA 1.3 learning2Domain elements.</note>-->
                </section>

                <section id="section-6">
                        <title>Paragraphs</title>
                        <p id="attribute-implementation-tokens">Implementers <term
          outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> define their own custom, implementation-specific tokens
        for the <xmlatt>merge</xmlatt> attribute. To avoid name conflicts between implementations or
        with future additions to the standard, implementation-specific tokens <term
          outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> consist of a prefix that gives the name or an
        abbreviation for the implementation followed by a colon followed by the token or method
        name.</p>
                        <p id="export-anchors-disclaimer">Many publishing systems for which DITA is
        used as a source format do not have a way to dynamically resolve content references; those
        systems will not see any benefit from this element. When DITA is used for those systems,
        behaviors related to this element are ignored.</p>
                        <p id="module-version-xpl">The identifiers listed below are declared by the
                                OASIS DITA Technical Committee for the modules that are shipped with
                                DITA 1.3. Values that use a version number of 1.3 refer specifically
                                to the modules that are delivered with the DITA 1.3 specification.
                                Values that use a version number of 1.x refer to the modules in the
                                latest approved DITA 1.x specification. Values without a version
                                number refer to the modules in the latest approved DITA
                                specification, regardless of version.</p>
                        <p id="keys-attribute-syntax">The <xmlatt>keys</xmlatt> attribute uses the
                                following syntax:<ul id="ul_yxs_dr5_yl">
                                        <li>The value of the <xmlatt>keys</xmlatt> attribute is one
                                                or more space-separated key names.</li>
                                        <li> Key names consist of characters that are legal in a
                                                URI. The case of key names is significant.</li>
                                        <li>The following characters are prohibited in key names:
                                                "{", "}", "[", "]", "/", "#", "?", and whitespace
                                                characters.</li>
                                </ul></p>
                        <p id="release-domain-best-practices">The recommended best practice is to
        use date strings that conform to the ISO 8601 standard, unless a <ph 
          >UNIX-style</ph> machine time stamp is used. The string might contain a date and time (for
        example, <codeph>2017-04-05T12:30-02:00</codeph>) or just a date (for example,
          <codeph>2019-03-04</codeph>).</p>
                        <p id="pgwide-explain">In DITA tables, in place of the
          <xmlatt>expanse</xmlatt> attribute used by other DITA elements, the
          <xmlatt>pgwide</xmlatt> attribute is used in order to conform to the OASIS Exchange Table
        Model. The <xmlatt>pgwide</xmlatt> attribute has a similar semantic
        (<keyword>1</keyword>=page width; <keyword>0</keyword>=resize to galley or column). </p>
      <div id="sort-as-construction">
        <p id="sort-as-1">When a <xmlelement>sort-as</xmlelement> element is specified, processors
          that sort the containing element <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> construct the
          effective sort phrase by prepending the content of the <xmlelement>sort-as</xmlelement>
          element to the base sort phrase. This ensures that two items with the same
            <xmlelement>sort-as</xmlelement> element but different base sort phrases will sort in
          the appropriate order.</p>
        <p otherprops="examples" id="sort-as-2">For example, if a processor uses the content of the
            <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element as the base sort phrase, and the title of a topic
          is "24 Hour Support Hotline" and the value of the <xmlelement>sort-as</xmlelement> element
          is "twenty-four hour", then the effective sort phrase would be "twenty-four hour24 Hour
          Support Hotline".</p>
      </div>
      <p id="rng-attribute-domain-name">An attribute domain's name is the name of the attribute plus
          <keyword>Att</keyword>. For example, for the attribute named
          <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>, the attribute domain name is "deliveryTargetAtt". The
        attribute domain name is used to construct pattern names for the domain. </p>
      <p id="dtd-attribute-domain-name">An attribute domain's name is the name of the attribute plus
          <keyword>Att</keyword>. For example, for the attribute named
          <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>, the attribute domain name is "deliveryTargetAtt". The
        attribute domain name is used to construct entity names for the domain. </p>
                </section>

                <section id="section-7">
                        <title>Phrases</title>
                        <lines>
 <ph id="does-it-cascade">Does it cascade to child <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements?</ph>
<ph id="highlight-caution">This element is part of the highlighting domain. Use this element only when a more semantically appropriate element is not available.</ph>
<ph id="xml-mention-domain">This element is part of the XML mention domain.</ph>
<ph id="groupdefn">The attribute also can include groups of values specified using the same syntax as generalized attributes within <xmlatt>props</xmlatt>; see <xref href="../archSpec/base/generalization-attributes.dita"/> for details on grouping syntax.</ph>
<ph id="ditavalref-copyto">If <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> is specified on a topic reference where <xmlelement>dvrResourcePrefix</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>dvrResourceSuffix</xmlelement> based renaming is in effect, the prefixes or suffixes are applied to the resource name inside the <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute.</ph>
</lines>
                </section>
                <section id="section-9"><title>Reused error conditions</title><ph id="index-sort-as">When located
                                within the <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element, the
                                        <xmlelement>sort-as</xmlelement> element is equivalent to
                                        <xmlelement>index-sort-as</xmlelement>. It is an error for
                                an <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element to directly contain
                                both <xmlelement>sort-as</xmlelement> and
                                        <xmlelement>index-sort-as</xmlelement>
                        elements.</ph></section>
    <section id="section-10">
      <title>Constraints material</title>
      <ul id="dtd-domains-contribution">
        <li id="inheritance-hierarchy-li"><varname>inheritance-hierarchy</varname> is the
          specialization hierarchy, for example, <codeph>topic task</codeph>.</li>
        <li id="qualifier-li"><varname>qualifier</varname> is a string that is specific to the
          constraints module and characterizes it, for example, "strict" or "requiredTitle" or
          "myCompany-".</li>
        <li id="Tagname-li"><varname>Tagname</varname> is the element type name with an initial
          capital, for example, "Topic".</li>
        <li id="literal-c-li">The literal "-c" indicates that the name is the name of a
          constraint.</li>
      </ul>
      <ul id="dtd-domains-contribution-domain-constraint">
        <li><varname>inheritance-hierarchy</varname> is the specialization hierarchy, for example,
            <codeph>topic hi-d</codeph>.</li>
        <li><varname>qualifier</varname> is a string that is specific to the constraints module and
          characterizes it, for example, "noSyntaxDiagram" or "myCompany-".</li>
        <li><varname>domain</varname> is the name of the domain to which the constraints apply, for
          example, "Highlighting" or "Programming".</li>
        <li conref="#reuse_file/literal-c-li"/>
      </ul>
      <ul id="dtd-domains-constraint">
        <li><varname>qualifier</varname> is a string that is specific to the constraints module and
          characterizes it, for example, "noSyntaxDiagram" or "myCompany-".</li>
        <li><ph id="domain-variable-ph"><varname>domain</varname> is the name of the domain to which
            the constraints apply, for example, "Highlighting" or "Programming".</ph></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="section-11">
      <title>File naming conventions</title>
      <p  id="see-file-naming-conventions">See <xref
          href="../non-normative/file-naming-conventions.dita"/> for information about best
        practices for file naming.</p>
      <p  id="indicating-strong-constraint">Optionally, a domains contribution
        can indicate a strong constraint by preceding the domains contribution with the letter "s".
        For example, <codeph>"s(topic task strictTaskbody-c)"</codeph> indicates a strong
        constraint.</p>
    </section>
        </conbody>
</concept>
