<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reuse">
  <title>Reused content for "About this specification"</title>
  <refbody>
    <section id="section-1">
      <dl id="editions-description">
        <dlentry id="base-dlentry">
          <dt>Base edition</dt>
          <dd id="base-dd">The base edition contains topic, map, and subject scheme map. It is the
            smallest edition; it is designed for application developers and users who need only the
            most fundamental pieces of the DITA framework.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="technicalContent-dlentry">
          <dt>Technical content edition</dt>
          <dd id="technicalContent-dd">The technical content edition includes the base architecture
              <b>and</b> the specializations usually used by technical communicators: concept, task,
            and reference topics; machine industry task; troubleshooting topic; bookmap; glossaries;
            and classification map. It is the medium-sized edition; it is designed for authors who
            use information typing and document complex applications and devices, such as software,
            hardware, medical devices, machinery, and more.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="allInclusive-dlentry">
          <dt>All-inclusive edition</dt>
          <dd id="allInclusive-dd">The all-inclusive edition contains the base architecture, the
            technical content pieces, <b>and</b> the learning and training specializations. It is
            the largest edition; it is designed for implementers who want all OASIS-approved
            specializations, as well as users who develop learning and training materials.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section id="xml-grammar-files">
      <title>XML grammar files</title>
      <p>The DITA markup for DITA vocabulary modules and DITA document types is available in several
        XML languages: RELAX NG (RNG), XML Document-Type Definitions (DTD), and W3C XML Schema
        (XSD).</p>
      <p>While the files should define the same DITA elements, the RELAX NG grammars are normative
        if there is a discrepancy.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="dita-written-specification">
      <title>DITA written specification</title>
      <p>The specification is written for implementers of the DITA standard, including tool
        developers and XML architects who develop specializations. The documentation contains
        several parts:</p>
      <ul >
        <li >Introduction</li>
        <li>Architectural specification</li>
        <li>Language reference</li>
        <li>Conformance statement</li>
        <li>Appendices</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The DITA written specification is available in the following formats; the XHTML version is
        authoritative:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>XHTML (available from the OASIS Web site)</li>
        <li>CHM</li>
        <li>PDF</li>
        <li>DITA source</li>
        <li >ZIP of XHTML (optimized for local use)</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
