<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="conref-usage-information">
    <title>Conref usage information</title>
    <refbody>
        <section id="data">
            <title>Usage information</title>
            <p>The primary purpose of the <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> element is as a
                specialization base. Because it can nest, it can be used to create complex metadata
                structures. Since it is available in both block and inline contexts, the
                    <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> element can specify properties for most element
                types.</p>
            <p>A metadata property specified using a <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> element usually
                applies to the element that contains the <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> element. When
                located in <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>metadata</xmlelement>
                elements, the property applies to the topic as a whole. When located in the
                    <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element, the property applies to the
                referenced topic. <ph props="full-dita">The <xmlelement>data-about</xmlelement>
                    element can be used to identify the subject of the property with an explicit
                    reference.</ph></p>
            <note type="caution">By default, processors do not render the content of the
                    <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> element. Use the <xmlelement>data</xmlelement>
                element only for properties; do not use it to embed text as part of the content
                flow. For example, while it is possible to specialize <xmlelement>data</xmlelement>
                to create a special kind of paragraph where <xmlelement>p</xmlelement> is not
                allowed, when the content is shared, other tools or processors will ignore the
                specialized <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> element.</note>
        </section>
        <section id="desc">
            <title>Usage information</title>
            <p>The following list outlines common uses of the <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement>
                element:</p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><xmlelement>table</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>fig</xmlelement></dt>
                    <dd>Provides more information than can be contained in the title</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><xmlelement>xref</xmlelement><ph props="full-dita"> and
                                <xmlelement>link</xmlelement></ph></dt>
                    <dd>Provides a description of the target</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry props="full-dita">
                    <dt><xmlelement>object</xmlelement></dt>
                    <dd>Provides alternate content to use when the context does not permit
                        displaying the object</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
        </section>
        <section id="fn">
            <title>Usage information</title>
            <p>There are two types of footnotes: <term>single-use footnote</term> and
                    <term>use-by-reference footnote</term>.</p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Single-use footnote</dt>
                    <dd>This is produced by a <xmlelement>fn</xmlelement> element that does not
                        specify a value for the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Use-by-reference footnote</dt>
                    <dd>This is produced by a <xmlelement>fn</xmlelement> element that specifies a
                        value for the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute. It must be used in conjunction
                        with an <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> element with <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> set
                        to "fn."</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
            <p>To reference a footnote that is located in another topic, the conref mechanism is
                used.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="keydef">
            <title>Usage information</title>
            <p>The <xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement> element is a convenience element. Anything that
                the <xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement> element does can also be accomplished with a
                    <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element. Attributes defaulted on the
                    <xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement> element ensure that key definitions do not
                appear in the TOC, do not add extra links, and are not rendered as topics .</p>
        </section>
    </refbody>
</reference>
