<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="conref-short-descriptions">
 <title>Short descriptions reused with LwDITA</title>
 <!-- KJE: Ensure that the shortdesc are ordered alphabetically by element name. Use the element name as the value of the @id attribute. -->
 <abstract>
  <shortdesc id="alt">Alternate text is a textual description of an image that can be read
   or displayed in place of the image. This is commonly used to create text alternatives for readers
   or systems that cannot view the original image.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="audio">Audio is recorded or reproduced sound.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="b">Bold text is used to draw a reader's attention to a phrase without
   otherwise adding meaning to the content.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="body">The body contains the main content of a topic.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="data">Data is a generic component that represents metadata within a DITA topic or
   map. Complex metadata is represented by nested data structures.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="dd">The definition description provides the definition for a term in a definition
   list entry. </shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="desc">A description is a statement that describes or contains additional
   information about an object.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="dl">A definition list is a list of terms and corresponding definitions.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="dlentry">A definition list entry groups a term and its definition.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="dt">A definition term is the text that is defined in a definition list
   entry.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="fig">A figure is a container for a variety of objects, including artwork, images,
   code samples, equations, and tables.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="fn">The <xmlelement>fn</xmlelement> element specifies content for an ancillary note
   placed in the footer of a page or at the end of an online article. Such content is usually
   inappropriate for inline inclusion. The <xmlelement>fn</xmlelement> element also is used to
   indicate the source for facts or other material that is cited in the text. </shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="i"> Italic text is a way to emphasize the key points in printed text, or when
   quoting a speaker, a way to show which words the speaker stressed.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="image">An image is a reference to artwork that is stored outside of the content. </shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="keydef">The key definition convenience element provides a simple way to define a
key without making the definition itself a part of rendered content. As with any key definition, the
resource will still be rendered when the key is
referenced.<!--The <xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement> element is a convenience element that is used to define keys without any of the other effects that occur when using a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element: no content is included in output, no title is included in the table of contents, and no linking or other relationships are defined. The <xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement> element is not the only way to define keys; its purpose is to simplify the process by defaulting several attributes to achieve the described behaviors.--></shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="li">A list item is an item in either an ordered or unordered list.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="linktext">Link text is the label for a link or resource.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="map">A DITA map is the mechanism for aggregating topics. It consists of references
   to topics, maps, and other resources; these references are organized into hierarchies, groups,
   and
   tables.<!--The <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element describes the relationships among a set of resources, such as DITA topics. Maps consist of references to topics, maps, and other resources organized into hierarchies, groups, and tables. Maps express these relationships in a single common format that can be used for different outputs. <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="20 June 2018"><p>This is very abstract ...</p></draft-comment>--></shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="navtitle">A navigation title provides a title for a resource. When used in topics,
   it is an alternate title that is designed for situations when the topic title is unsuitable for
   use in a table of contents or navigation pane. When used in maps, a navigation title can serve as
   an alternate title or simply as an aid to understanding the DITA map.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="note">A note contains information that expands on or calls attention to a
   particular point.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="ol">An ordered list is a list of items that are sorted by sequence or order of
   importance.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="p"> A paragraph is a single unit of text that contains a main idea.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="ph">The <xmlelement>ph</xmlelement> element is used to enclose a phrase for reuse or
   conditional processing (for example, when part of a paragraph applies to a particular audience).
   It can be used by specializations of DITA to create semantic markup for content at the phrase
   level, which then allows (but does not require) specific processing or formatting.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="pre">Preformatted text is text that contains line breaks and spaces that are
   intended to be preserved at publication time.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="prolog">The prolog contains metadata about the topic, for example, author
   information or subject category.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="section">A section is an organizational division in a topic. Sections are used to
   organize subsets of information that are directly related to the topic; they can be
   titled.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="shortdesc">A short description describes the purpose or main point of a
   topic.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="simpletable">Simple tables are tables that are regular in structure and do not need
   a caption. </shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="stentry">A simple table entry represents a single cell within a simple
   table.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="sthead">A simple table header is a header row for a simple table.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="strow">A simple table row is a single row in a simple table.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="sub">A subscript is text that is printed below the line. It is frequently used in
   chemical and mathematical formulas.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="sup">A superscript is text that is printed above the line. It is frequently used in
   chemical and mathematical formulas.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="title">A title is a heading or label for an object. Titles can be associated with
   topics, maps, sections, examples, figures, tables, and other structures.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="topic"
   ><!--<draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="12 July 2018"><p>Kris: Should we change "standalone" to "independent"?</p><p>Tom: Should we also mention "small enough to reuse"?</p><p>A topic is a unit of information that is large enough to be self-contained, but small enough to be reused.</p><p>Kris: Are we drifting into best practices?</p></draft-comment>-->A
   topic is a standalone unit of information.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="topicmeta">Topic metadata is metadata that applies to a topic; this metadata is
   defined in a
   map.<!-- This metadata also applies to other topics in the map that are part of the same containment hierarchy.--></shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="topicref">A topic reference is the mechanism for referencing a topic (or another
   resource) from a DITA map. It can nest, which enables the expression of navigation and
   table-of-content hierarchies, as well as containment hierarchies and parent-child
   relationships.</shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="u">An underline, also called an underscore, is a line immediately below a portion
   of text. </shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="ul">An unordered list is a list in which the order of items is not significant. </shortdesc>
  <shortdesc id="xref">A cross reference is an inline link. It can reference a different location
   within the current topic, another topic, a specific location in another topic, or an external
   resource such as a PDF or Web page.</shortdesc>
 </abstract>
</concept>
