<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="ditaval-style-conflict" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>style-conflict</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>style-conflict</xmlelement> element in a DITAVAL document declares the
    behavior to be used when one or more flagging methods collide on a single content
    element.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>DITAVAL<indexterm>elements<indexterm><xmlelement>style-conflict</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>elements<indexterm>DITAVAL<indexterm><xmlelement>style-conflict</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>In case of conflicts between flagging methods at different levels (for example, a section
        is flagged green and a paragraph within the section is flagged red), the most deeply nested
        flagging method applies. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="rendering-expectations">
      <title>Rendering expectations</title>
      <p>In case of conflicts between flagging methods on the same element (for example, a single
        element is being flagged with both green and red color), it is recommended that the
        conflicts be resolved as follows:<dl>
          <dlhead>
            <dthd>Flagging method</dthd>
            <ddhd>Conflict behavior</ddhd>
          </dlhead>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlelement>startflag</xmlelement></dt>
            <dd>Add all flags that apply.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlelement>endflag</xmlelement></dt>
            <dd>Add all flags that apply.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>color</dt>
            <dd>Follow the <xmlelement>style-conflict</xmlelement> element's
                <xmlatt>foreground-conflict-color</xmlatt> setting, or use an output-appropriate
              default color if no conflict color is set.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><keyword>backcolor</keyword></dt>
            <dd>Follow the <xmlelement>style-conflict</xmlelement> element's
                <xmlatt>background-conflict-color</xmlatt> setting, or use an output-appropriate
              default color if no conflict color is set.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>style</dt>
            <dd>Add all font styles that apply. If two different kinds of underline are used,
              default to the heaviest (double underline) and use the
                <xmlatt>foreground-conflict-color</xmlatt>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>changebar</dt>
            <dd>Add all change bars that apply.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlatt>foreground-conflict-color</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Specifies the color to be used when more than one flagging color applies to a single
              content element.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlatt>background-conflict-color</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Specifies the color to be used when more than one flagging background color applies
              to a single content element.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
    </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title>
      <p>See <xref keyref="elements-ditaval-val"/>.</p></example>
</refbody>
</reference>

