<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="ditaval-val" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>val</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>val</xmlelement> element is the root element of a DITAVAL
      file.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>DITAVAL<indexterm>elements<indexterm><xmlelement>val</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
            <indexterm>elements<indexterm>DITAVAL<indexterm><xmlelement>val</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
      <section id="usage-information">
         <title>Usage information</title>
         <p>For information about processing DITAVAL files, including how to filter or flag elements
            with multiple property attributes or multiple properties within a single attribute, see
               <xref href="../../archSpec/base/condproc.dita"/>. </p>
      </section>
      <section id="attributes">
         <title>Attributes</title>
         <p conkeyref="reuse-attributes/no-atts"/>
      </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title><fig><title>Sample
DITAVAL file</title>
<codeblock>&lt;val>
   &lt;style-conflict <ph >background-conflict-color</ph>="red"/>
   &lt;prop action="include" att="audience" val="everybody"/>
   &lt;prop action="flag" att="product" val="YourProd" backcolor="purple"/>
   &lt;prop action="flag" att="product" backcolor="blue"
         color="yellow" style="underline" val="MyProd">
      &lt;startflag imageref="startflag.jpg">
        &lt;alt-text>This is the start of my product info&lt;/alt-text>
      &lt;/startflag>
      &lt;endflag imageref="endflag.jpg">
        &lt;alt-text>This is the end of my product info&lt;/alt-text>
      &lt;/endflag>
   &lt;/prop>
   &lt;revprop action="flag" val="1.2"/>
&lt;/val></codeblock>
<p>This sample DITAVAL file performs the following actions:<ul>
                  <li>Elements with <codeph>audience="everybody"</codeph> are included without
                     change.</li>
                  <li>Elements with <codeph>product="YourProd"</codeph> get a background color of
                     purple.</li>
                  <li>Elements with <codeph>product="MyProd"</codeph> get the following actions:<ul>
                        <li>The image <filepath>startflag.jpg</filepath> is placed at the start of
                           the element.</li>
                        <li>The image <filepath>endflag.jpg</filepath> is placed at the end of the
                           element.</li>
                        <li>The element gets a background color of blue.</li>
                        <li>The text in the element appears in yellow; the text is underlined.</li>
                     </ul></li>
                  <li>Elements marked with are flagged with the default revision flags,
                     which are implementation dependent.</li>
                  <li>When there are conflicts, for example,  if an element is marked with
                        <codeph>product="MyProd YourProd"</codeph>, it will be flagged with a
                     background color of red.</li>
               </ul></p>
</fig><fig><title>DITAVAL file that overrides the default "include"
action</title>
<codeblock>&lt;val>
   &lt;prop action="exclude"/>
   &lt;prop action="include" att="audience" val="everybody"/>
   &lt;prop action="include" att="audience" val="novice"/>
   &lt;prop action="include" att="product" val="productA"/>
   &lt;prop action="include" att="product" val="productB"/>
&lt;/val></codeblock>
<p>This simple DITAVAL file performs the following actions:<ul>
                  <li>The first <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element does not specify an attribute,
                     which sets a default action of "exclude" for every prop value. This means that,
                     by default, any property value not otherwise defined in this file evaluates to
                     "exclude". Note that this same behavior can be limited to a single attribute;
                     the following <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element sets a default action of
                     "exclude" for all properties specified on the <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt> attribute:
                        <codeph>&lt;prop action="exclude" <ph 
                           >att="platform"</ph>/></codeph></li>
                  <li>The second and third <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> elements set an action of
                     "include" for two values on the <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt> attribute. All other
                     values on the <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt> attribute still evaluate to
                     "exclude".</li>
                  <li>The fourth and fifth <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> elements set an action of
                     "include" for two values on the <xmlatt>product</xmlatt> attribute. All other
                     values on the <xmlatt>product</xmlatt> attribute still evaluate to
                     "exclude".</li>
               </ul></p>
</fig>
   <fig >
            <title>DITAVAL with conditions for groups</title>
            <codeblock>&lt;val>
   &lt;prop action="exclude" att="product" val="appserver"/>
   &lt;prop action="include" att="product" val="mySERVER"/>
   &lt;prop action="include" att="database" val="dbFIRST"/>
   &lt;prop action="include" att="database" val="dbSECOND"/>
   &lt;prop action="exclude" att="database" val="newDB"/>
&lt;/val></codeblock>
            <p>Assume that "database" and "appserver" are used as group names within the
                  <xmlatt>product</xmlatt> attribute. In that case, the sample DITAVAL above
               performs the following actions:<ul>
                  <li>The first <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element excludes the value "appserver"
                     when used within the <xmlatt>product</xmlatt> attribute. It also sets a default
                     of "exclude" for values within any appserver() group inside of the
                        <xmlatt>product</xmlatt> attribute.</li>
                  <li>The second <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element sets "mySERVER" to include;
                     this applies whether "mySERVER" appears alone in the <xmlatt>product</xmlatt>
                     attribute (<codeph>product="mySERVER"</codeph>) or inside of any group
                        (<codeph>product="appserver(mySERVER)"</codeph> or
                        <codeph>product="otherGroup(mySERVER)"</codeph>).</li>
                  <li>The third and fourth <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> elements set the database
                     values "dbFIRST" and "dbSECOND" to include. If those values appear inside of a
                     "database" group, they are explicitly set to "include". If they appear
                     elsewhere in a conditional attribute (such as
                        <codeph>product="dbFIRST"</codeph> or <codeph>platform="dbSECOND"</codeph>),
                     this rule does not apply.</li>
                  <li>The final <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element sets the database value
                     "newDB" to exclude. If that value appears inside of a database group, it is
                     explicitly set to "exclude". If it appears in any other group or attribute,
                     this rule does not apply.</li>
               </ul></p>
            <p>Remember that with groups, if all values inside of a single group evaluate to
               "exclude", that is equivalent to an entire attribute evaluating to "exclude", which
               results in the removal of the content. Using the above sample DITAVAL:<ul>
                  <li><codeph>&lt;p product="appserver"></codeph> is filtered out, because this
                     value is excluded.</li>
                  <li><codeph>&lt;p product="appserver(A B)"></codeph> is filtered out, because
                     there is no explicit rule for A or B, and values in the "appserver" group
                     inside of <xmlatt>product</xmlatt> default to exclude.</li>
                  <li><codeph>&lt;p product="appserver(A B mySERVER)"></codeph> is included, because
                        <codeph>product="mySERVER"</codeph> evaluates to "include", which means the
                     entire group evaluates to "include".</li>
                  <li><codeph>&lt;p product="newDB"></codeph> is included, because no rule in the
                     DITAVAL applies, so the "newDB" token defaults to "include".</li>
                  <li><codeph>&lt;p product="database(newDB)"></codeph> is filtered out, because the
                     token "newDB" is excluded when found in the database group.</li>
                  <li><codeph>&lt;p product="database(dbFIRST dbSECOND newDB)"></codeph> is
                     included, because both "dbFIRST" and "dbSECOND" are included, so the group
                     evaluates to include.</li>
                  <li><codeph>&lt;p product="database(newDB) appserver(mySERVER)"></codeph> is
                     filtered out, because the token "newDB" is excluded when found in the database
                     group. The entire "database" group on this paragraph evaluates to "exclude", so
                     the element is excluded, regardless of how the "appserver" group
                     evaluates.</li>
               </ul></p>
            <note>If two groups with the same name exist on different attributes, each group will
               evaluate the same way. For example, rules for the database group in this sample would
               evaluate the same whether the group is used within <xmlatt>product</xmlatt> or
                  <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>. See <xref href="../../archSpec/base/condproc.dita"/>
               for suggestions on how to handle similar groups on different attributes.</note>
         </fig></example>
</refbody>
</reference>

