<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="ditaval-startflag" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>startflag</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>startflag</xmlelement> element in a DITAVAL
    document specifies information that identifies the beginning of flagged
    content. The information can be an image, alternate text, or
    both.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>DITAVAL<indexterm>elements<indexterm><xmlelement>startflag</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>elements<indexterm>DITAVAL<indexterm><xmlelement>startflag</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>If the <xmlelement>startflag</xmlelement> element does not specify
        an image or provide alternate text, the element has no defined
        purpose.</p>
      <!--<p>The <xmlelement>start</xmlelement> element defines a flag to be used at the beginning of content identified by "flag" conditions in a DITAVAL document:<ul id="ul_r1g_lws_jnb"><li>If an image is specified, the specified image is a flag to identify the beginning of the content, with the <xmlelement>alt-text</xmlelement> contents as alternative text for that image.</li><li> If <xmlelement>alt-text</xmlelement> is specified but <xmlelement>startflag</xmlelement> does not reference an image, that text can be used to flag the content instead of an image.</li><li>If no image and no <xmlelement>alt-text</xmlelement> are specified, then this element has no defined purpose.</li></ul></p>-->
    </section>
    <section id="rendering-expectations">
      <title>Rendering expectations</title>
      <p>Processors treat the information provided by the
          <xmlelement>startflag</xmlelement> element in the following
        way:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>If an image is specified, the image is used as a flag to
          identify the beginning of the flagged content. If the
            <xmlelement>alt-text</xmlelement> element contains content, the
          content is used as alternate text for the image.</li>
        <li>If alternate text is specified but the
            <xmlelement>startflag</xmlelement> element does not specify an
          image, the alternate text is used to indicate the beginning of
          the flagged content.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attribute is available on this element:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditaval-imageref">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example</title>
      <!--<p>See <xref keyref="elements-ditaval-val/example"><xmlelement>val</xmlelement></xref>.</p>-->
      <p>The following code sample shows a DITAVAL document that is used to
        render icons before content that is specific to a particular
        operating system. The <xmlelement>startflag</xmlelement> elements
        specify the icons, and the <xmlelement>alt-text</xmlelement>
        elements provides alternate text.</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;val>
  &lt;prop action="flag" att="platform" val="linux">
    <b>&lt;startflag imageref="linux-icon.gif"></b>
      &lt;alt-text>Linux&lt;/alt-text>
    &lt;/startflag>
  &lt;/prop>
  &lt;prop action="flag" att="platform" val="windows">
    <b>&lt;startflag imageref="windows-icon.gif"></b>
      &lt;alt-text>Windows&lt;/alt-text>
    &lt;/startflag>
  &lt;/prop>
  &lt;prop action="flag" att="platform" val="zos">
    <b>&lt;startflag imageref="zos-icon.gif"></b>
      &lt;alt-text>zOS&lt;/alt-text>
    &lt;/startflag>
  &lt;/prop>
&lt;/val></codeblock>
    </example>
</refbody>
</reference>
