<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="ditaval-prop" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>prop</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc>The <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element in a DITAVAL
    document specifies filtering or flagging actions that occur when
    rendering. The actions target the <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attribute or
    specializations of <xmlatt>props</xmlatt>, <ph rev="review-m"
      >including</ph>
    <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>,
      <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>, and
      <xmlatt>product</xmlatt>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>DITAVAL<indexterm>elements<indexterm><xmlelement>prop</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>elements<indexterm>DITAVAL<indexterm><xmlelement>prop</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>The following table lists the functions <ph rev="review-m">that
          are performed</ph> by the <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element
        in a DITAVAL document:</p>
      <simpletable relcolwidth="1* 2*">
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Markup</stentry>
          <stentry>Result</stentry>
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry> A <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element that specifies
            both an <xmlatt>att</xmlatt> and <ph rev="review-m">a</ph>
            <xmlatt>val</xmlatt> attribute</stentry>
          <stentry>Specifies an action (exclude, flag, include, or pass
            through) for the attribute or attribute group with the
            specified value</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>A <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element that specifies
            only an <xmlatt>att</xmlatt> attribute</stentry>
          <stentry>Sets a default action for the specified attribute or
            attribute group</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>A <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element without an
              <xmlatt>att</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>val</xmlatt> attribute </stentry>
          <stentry>Sets a default action for all conditional-processing
            attributes not explicitly specified in the DITAVAL
            document</stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
    </section>
    <section id="rendering-expectations">
      <title>Rendering expectations</title>
      <div conkeyref="rendering-expectations/ditaval-rendering"/>
    </section>
    <section id="processing-expectations">
      <title>Processing expectations</title>
      <p outputclass="errorcondition">The following markup in a DITAVAL document is an error condition:<ul>
          <li>More than one <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element with no <xmlatt>att</xmlatt>
            attribute</li>
          <li>More than one <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element with the same <xmlatt>att</xmlatt>
            attribute and no value </li>
          <li>More than one <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element with the same <xmlatt>att</xmlatt>
            attribute and same <xmlatt>value</xmlatt></li>
        </ul>Processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> provide an error or warning message
        for these error conditions.</p>
      <div conkeyref="reuse-general/processing-outputclass"/>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="attr-action"><xmlatt>action</xmlatt>
            <ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/required-attr"/></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>Specifies the action to be taken. The following values are
              supported:</p>
            <dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>exclude</dt>
                <dd>Indicates that the content is excluded from the output,
                  if all values for the specified attribute are
                  excluded.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>flag</dt>
                <dd>Indicates that the content is included in the output
                  and flagged, if the content has not been excluded.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>include</dt>
                <dd>Indicates that the content is included in the output.
                  This is the default behavior, unless otherwise set.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>passthrough</dt>
                <dd>Indicates that the content is included in the output
                  and that the attribute value is preserved. This enables
                  further processing by a runtime engine.<!-- The attribute
                  value is preserved in the syntax that is required by the
                  runtime
                  engine. Values that are not explicitly passed through should be removed from the output stream, even though the content is still included.--></dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="attr-att"><xmlatt>att</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the conditional-processing attribute that is targeted. The value is the
            literal attribute name or the name of a group within one of those attributes, with the
            group name specified using the generalized attribute syntax. If the <xmlatt>att</xmlatt>
            attribute is absent, then the <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element declares a default
            behavior for anything not explicitly specified in the DITAVAL document.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="attr-val"><xmlatt>val</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the attribute value <ph rev="review-m">that is targeted</ph>. If the
              <xmlatt>val</xmlatt> attribute is absent, then the <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement>
            element declares a default behavior for any value in the specified attribute.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <p conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditaval-flagging-attr-intro"/>
      <dl>
        <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditaval-backcolor">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditaval-color">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditaval-outputclass">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditaval-style">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example</title>
      <!--<p>See <xref keyref="elements-ditaval-val/example"><xmlelement>val</xmlelement></xref>.</p>-->
      <p>The following code sample shows a DITAVAL document that contains
        three <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> elements:</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;val>
  &lt;prop action="exclude"/>
  &lt;prop action="passthrough" att="otherprops"/>
  &lt;prop action="include" att="product" val="base-product"/>
&lt;/val></codeblock>
      <p>The following list outlines the actions that the DITAVAL document
        specifies:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Sets a default action of <keyword>exclude</keyword>. With the
          exception of the other conditions <ph rev="review-m">that
            are</ph> specified in the <ph rev="review-m">above</ph> DITAVAL
          document, the content of any element that specifies a
          conditional-processing attribute is excluded from the rendered
          output.</li>
        <li>Sets a default action of <keyword>passthrough</keyword> for the
            <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt> attribute. The content of any
          element that specifies the <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt> attribute
          is included in the output. In addition, the value for the
            <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt> attribute is preserved in the
          rendered output, if supported by the output format.</li>
        <li>Sets an action of <keyword>include</keyword> for any element
          that specifies a value of <keyword>base-product</keyword> for the
            <xmlatt>product</xmlatt> attribute. The content of any element
          that specifies a value of <keyword>base-product</keyword> for the
            <xmlatt>product</xmlatt> attribute is included in the rendered
          output.</li>
      </ol>
      <div rev="review-m">
        <p>When a DITA map is processed using the above DITAVAL document,
          the following DITA elements are excluded:</p>
        <ol>
          <li>Any element for which the <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>,
              <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>,
            and <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attributes (or specializations of
              <xmlatt>props</xmlatt>) specify a non-null value.</li>
          <li>Any element for which the <xmlatt>product</xmlatt> attribute
            specifies a value that is not equal to
              <keyword>base-product</keyword>.</li>
        </ol>
        <p>All other content is included.</p>
      </div>
    </example>
</refbody>
</reference>

