<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_xzh_h25_xsb">
    <title>About conditional processing</title>
    <shortdesc>Certain concepts are critical for a full understanding of
    conditional processing.</shortdesc>
    <body>
        <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>conditional processing</dt>
        <dd>A process that determines whether content is included,
          excluded, or flagged. This process is based on a comparison of
          conditional-processing attributes in the DITA source with the
          rules that are set in one or more DITAVAL documents.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>conditional processing attribute</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Attributes that can be used for filtering and flagging. These
            are the following attributes:</p>
          <ul>
            <li><ph conkeyref="reuse-general/propsAndSpecializations"
              /></li>
            <li>The <xmlatt>rev</xmlatt> attribute, which supports flagging
              but not filtering</li>
          </ul>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>conditional-processing profile</dt>
        <dd>A set of rules that are provided to a processor for use at
          rendering time. These rules are based on one or more DITAVAL
            documents.<draft-comment author="rodaande" time="21 March 2022"
            >I'm not certain "conditional processing profile" warrants a
            separate definition. I added it after going through some of the
            following topics, and seeing a distinctions between a DITAVAL
            document and a [set of conditions sent as input to a processor]
            – for example, DITA-OT or an editor can apply conditions from
            multiple DITAVAL documents as a single conditional processing
            profile.</draft-comment></dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>DITAVAL document</dt>
        <dd>A document that specifies a set of rules that define which
          elements to include, exclude, or flag. A DITAVAL document can be
          a file on the file system, a set of rules stored in memory, or
          another way of storing information that is expressed using
          DITAVAL
            syntax.<!--<draft-comment author="rodaande" audience="spec-editors" time="18 March 2022">Do we need to / should we state here that this can be a file on the file system, a set of rules in memory, or any other way of storing filtering information that can be expressed using DITAVAL syntax?</draft-comment>--><draft-comment
            author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="21 March 2022">
            <p>Do we need to explicitly mention passthrough in the first
              sentence, or is passthrough considered to be part of
              flagging? If the latter, we should explicitly state that in
              the topic where we give a high-level overview of the sort of
              rules that can be defined using a DITAVAL document.</p>
          </draft-comment></dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>filtering</dt>
        <dd>The process of excluding content at rendering time.</dd>
        <!--<dd>Excluding content from processing or rendering, such as excluding a paragraph from a topic or a excluding a branch of topic references from a map.</dd>-->
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="21 March 2022">
      <p>Do we need to broaden the definition of  filtering and mention
        inclusion also?</p>
    </draft-comment>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>flagging</dt>
        <dd>The process of emphasizing content by inserting images, text,
          or stylistic formatting at rendering time.</dd>
        <!--<dd>Including extra text, images, or other formatting when rendering content.</dd>-->
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein">
      <p>The following content is not about core concepts, It is about the
        following and should be relocated elsewhere:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>What we expect from processors</li>
        <li>The fact that the spec does not define mechanisms for
          conditional processing using metadata elements</li>
      </ul>
    </draft-comment>
        <p>Processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> be able to perform filtering and
            flagging using the following attributes: <xmlatt>props</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>product</xmlatt>, and
            <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt>.</p>
        <p>The <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attribute can be specialized to create new attributes, and
            processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> be able to perform conditional
            processing on specializations of <xmlatt>props</xmlatt>.</p>
        <p>Although metadata elements exist with similar names, such as the
                <xmlelement>audience</xmlelement> element, the specification does not define any
            mechanism for conditional processing using metadata elements.</p>
    </body>
</topic>
