<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="aboutditavaldocuments">
    <title>About the DITAVAL document</title>
    <shortdesc>A DITAVAL document specifies a set of rules that defines which elements to include,
        exclude, or flag.</shortdesc>
    <body>
        <p>The markup for DITAVAL documents provides a standard way to
      define all conditional processing that is associated with the DITA
      specification.</p>
        <p>Each rule in a DITAVAL document does one of the following:<ul id="ul_z3h_cs5_xsb">
                <li>Defines a rendering behavior for an attribute and value
          pair, for example, <codeph>audience="novice"</codeph>.</li>
                <li>Defines a default behavior for a conditional processing attribute, such as
                    defining a default rendering behavior of <keyword>exclude</keyword> for the
                        <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>. With that default, any
                        <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt> value not otherwise defined in the document
                    uses that default behavior of <keyword>exclude</keyword>.</li>
                <li>Defines a default behavior for <b>all</b> conditional
          processing attributes, such as defining a default rendering
          behavior of <keyword>exclude</keyword>. With that default, any
          conditional-processing attribute not otherwise defined in the
          document uses that default behavior of
          <keyword>exclude</keyword>.</li>
            </ul></p>
    <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="21 March 2022">
      <p>Ideally, I'd like this topic to provide a more detailed overview
        of what can be done with a DITAVAL document. What we say
        immediately above is technically accurate, but it largely restates
        what we have in the element-reference topics, rather than providing
        a good conceptual overview with supporting details. Given the
        complexity of conditional processing, I think that is what we need
        here.</p>
    </draft-comment>
        <p>While the DITAVAL markup is not part of the DITA topic or map
      vocabulary and cannot be specialized, the XML itself is part of the
      specification. See <xref
        href="../../langRef/containers/ditaval-elements.dita"/> for
      details.</p>
    <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="21 March 2022">
      <p>The topic (or another archSpec topic) needs to include the
        following information:</p>
      <p>Processors can implement default behaviors for flagging. This
        might include alternate text to indicate the start and end points
        of revised content or stylistic formatting when no specific
        flagging behavior is specified.</p>
    </draft-comment>
    </body>
</topic>
