<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="accessibilitymarkup" xml:lang="en-US">
	<title>Accessible tables</title>
	<shortdesc>The complexity of table rendering requires authors and
    processors to be aware of several table-specific elements and
    attributes if they want to ensure that tables are
    accessible.</shortdesc>
	<prolog>
		<metadata>
			<keywords>
				<indexterm>accessibility<indexterm>tables</indexterm></indexterm>
			</keywords>
		</metadata>
	</prolog>
	<conbody>
    <p><ph
        conref="../../langRef/containers/table-elements.dita#table2/table-types"
      /></p>
    <div
      conref="../../langRef/containers/table-elements.dita#table2/table-types-elaboration"/>
    <p>The following list provides information about table features that
      have an effect on table accessibility. Note that some features are
      applicable only to the complex tables that are produced by the
        <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> element.</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Captions</dt>
        <dd>Both table models allow for a caption to be provided by using
          the <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Cell headers</dt>
        <dd>When entries within a table function as headers, but do not
          fall into the categories of column or row headers, the
            <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>headers</xmlatt> attributes on
          table cells can be used <ph rev="review-o">to associate table
            cells with headers</ph>. Specifying the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt>
          attribute on the cell that functions as a header, and setting the
            <xmlatt>headers</xmlatt> attribute to that ID value on <ph
            rev="review-o">the</ph> table cell for which it acts as a
          header serves to relate table cells to headers.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <!--<dlentry><dt>Column headers (first column)</dt><dd>Both table models provide support for column headers for the first column in the table:<dl><dlentry><dt>Complex table</dt><dd>The <xmlatt>rowheader</xmlatt> attribute can be set to <keyword>firstcol</keyword> to indicate that the first column is a header. Alternatively, the <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> attribute in the first entry in the first row to can be set to <keyword>col</keyword> to indicate that it is a header for the entire column.</dd></dlentry><dlentry><dt>Simple table</dt><dd/></dlentry></dl></dd></dlentry>-->
      <!--<dlentry><dt>Column headers (other columns)</dt><dd>When using a <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> element, use the column specifications (<xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement>) to define which columns function as headers. For that case, set the attribute <xmlelement>rowheader</xmlelement> to <keyword>headers</keyword> on the column or columns that function as headers. Alternatively, set the <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> attribute on each relevant entry in the first row to <keyword>col</keyword>, indicating that the entry is a header for the entire column.<p>When using a <xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement> element, set the <xmlatt>keycol</xmlatt> attribute to the number of the column that functions as a header.</p></dd></dlentry>-->
      <dlentry>
        <dt rev="review-o">Column headers</dt>
        <dd>
          <p><ph rev="review-o">Column headers are created using a header row, where each cell in
              the header row provides a header for other cells in its column.</ph> Both table models
            provide support for <ph rev="review-o">column headers</ph>:</p>
          <dl>
            <dlentry>
              <dt>Complex table</dt>
              <dd>The <xmlelement>thead</xmlelement> element can provide
                one or more header rows.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
              <dt>Simple table</dt>
              <dd>The <xmlelement>sthead</xmlelement> element can provide a single row header.</dd>
            </dlentry>
          </dl>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt rev="review-o">Row headers</dt>
        <dd>
          <p><ph rev="review-o">Row headers are created using a header column, where each cell in
              the header column provides a header for other cells in its row.</ph> Both table models
            provide support for <ph rev="review-o">row headers</ph>:</p>
          <dl>
            <dlentry>
              <dt>Complex table</dt>
              <dd>(First column) The <xmlatt>rowheader</xmlatt> attribute can be set to
                  <keyword>firstcol</keyword>
                <ph rev="review-o">on the <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> element</ph> to indicate
                that the first column is a header. Alternatively, the <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt>
                attribute for each entry in the first column can be set to <keyword rev="review-o"
                  >row</keyword> to indicate that those cells are headers for their respective
                rows.</dd>
              <dd>(Other columns) The <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement> element can define which
                columns function as headers. For that case, set the <xmlatt>rowheader</xmlatt>
                attribute to <keyword>headers</keyword> on the column or columns that function as
                headers. Alternatively, set the <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> attribute on each relevant
                entry in the <ph rev="review-o">column to <keyword>row</keyword>, indicating that
                  the entry is a header for the entire row.</ph></dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
              <dt>Simple table</dt>
              <dd>The <xmlatt>keycol</xmlatt> attribute can be set to the number of the column that
                functions as a header.</dd>
            </dlentry>
          </dl>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Summaries</dt>
        <dd>(Complex table only) While the <xmlatt>summary</xmlatt>
          attribute on tables is deprecated in HTML5, the
            <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement> element within a
            <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> can be used to store a summary.
          Since the content of the <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement> element is
          typically rendered as part of the content flow when used within
            <xmlelement>table</xmlelement>, processors might need special
          configuration to support this usage.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
	</conbody>
</concept> 
