<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="accessibility_contentvsprocessor">
    <title>Handling accessibility in content and in processors</title>
    <shortdesc>Accssibility requirements vary based on how content is rendered. These requirements
        fall on both content owners and on the tools that render DITA content.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <draft-comment author="rodaande">Initial draft-content, needs a lot of revision and need to
            add WCAG to the references <xref href="https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/" format="html"
                scope="external"/></draft-comment>
        <p>One of the best known standards for producing accessible content is the set of <xref
                href="https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/" format="html" scope="external">Web Content
                Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG)</xref> from W3C. While content formats and content
            owners may always have unique or additional accessibility needs, the rules in WCAG
            provide a good reference point for describing how to create accessible content in
            DITA.</p>
        <p>When considiring how to work with DITA, the guidelines fall into the following categories:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>General content guidelines</dt>
                    <dd>Many accessibility guidelines and best practices apply to all content, and
                        are generally outside the scope of this specification. <p>For example, a
                            guideline might recommend against multiple levels of nested unordered
                            lists, because those lists are difficult to navigate with a screen
                            reader. As a general content standard, DITA cannot prohibit such
                            nesting. The best way to enforce such rules when they apply is through
                            editorial gudelines, or by setting up an editor or content management
                            system to prohibit its use.</p><p>As another example, recommendations to
                            avoid flashing or flickering video content are outside the scope of this
                            specification. DITA's <xmlelement>video</xmlelement> element is a
                            general mechanism for including any video – the content of that video is
                            outside the scope of this specification.</p></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Guidelines requiring specific markup</dt>
                    <dd>Many other accessibility guidelines require use of specific DITA markup, and
                        will be addressed in this section of the specification. <p>For example, a
                            requirement that images specify alternate text requires use of the
                                <xmlelement>alt</xmlelement> element within an image. However, a
                            guideline that the alternate text be <i>meaningful</i> is not something
                            that can be enforced by the markup, and falls into the first
                            category.</p></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Guidelines requiring enablement by DITA processors</dt>
                    <dd>Some accessibility guidelines require processors to take advantage of
                        specific DITA markup.<p>For example, by placing a header row in a table
                            using <xmlelement>thead</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>sthead</xmlelement>,
                            an author can define a header for every cell in the table body. If the
                            relationship between table cell and header cell must be made specific in
                            a rendered format like HTML, a processor can make those relationships
                            explicit without any additional intervention by the author.</p></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Processor requirements outside the scope of DITA markup</dt>
                    <dd>Processors have many other accessibility concerns that are outside the scope
                        of this specification.<p>For example, WCAG has a requirement for contrast
                            ratios when rendering text content. That requirement is unrelated to the
                            source content; instead, such requirements apply to the rendering tools
                            such as CSS used to style DITA content in a browser.</p><p>As another
                            example, a DITA processor might generate automated headings or text
                            strings, such as a greater-than character (>) used between DITA phrases
                            identified as a menu navigation. It is up to the processor to use
                            correct markup for these cases, such as heading markup for any headings,
                            and accessible text alternatives for character displays like the menu
                            separator.</p></dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
