<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="accessibilitymarkup" xml:lang="en-US">
	<title>Accessible content</title>
	<shortdesc> DITA provides many elements and attributes that are specifically designed make
		content more accessible.</shortdesc>
	<prolog>
		<metadata>
			<keywords>
				<indexterm>accessibility</indexterm>
			</keywords>
		</metadata>
	</prolog>
	<conbody>
		<section id="about">
			<p>Many common types of content are not accessible to all readers in all
        scenarios. For example, an image cannot be rendered by a screen
        reader, and a video cannot be rendered in many formats. DITA
        includes markup features that are designed to convey alternate
        versions of such content.</p>
			<draft-comment author="rodaande" time="25 March 2022">For things like the alt element and
				longdescref element, we should be reusing content from the element ref rather than
				effectively redefining the element here - likely reusing the full short
				description.</draft-comment>
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt id="images">Alternate text for images</dt>
					<dd>The <xmlelement>alt</xmlelement> element is available inside of images as a
						way to specify alternate text.</dd>
				</dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Image maps</dt>
          <dd>Within an image map, each defined area of the image can
            specify a cross reference. Whether or not the cross reference
            actually provides a URI reference, the text within that cross
            reference is intended to function as alternate text or hover
            text for that area of the image.</dd>
        </dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Long descriptions for media</dt>
					<dd>
            <p>The <xmlelement>longdescref</xmlelement> element is a
              reference to a textual description of a graphic or object. It
              is intended for situations where alternate text is not
              sufficient to explain the content. Processors can handle the
              reference in the following ways:</p>
            <ul>
              <li>Rendering the graphic or object as a link</li>
              <li>Making the extended description available to
                accessibility tools such as a screen reader.</li>
            </ul>
          </dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
			<p>While DITA provides the markup to enable these accessibility
        features, it is up to DITA processors and rendering formats to
        handle them properly. For example, when generating HTML5, any
        alternate text must be rendered using the <xmlatt>alt</xmlatt>
        attribute on the <xmlatt>img</xmlatt> element.</p>
		</section>
	</conbody>
</concept> 
