<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="architectural-attributes" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Architectural attributes</title>
<shortdesc>The architectural attributes specify the version of DITA that the content supports; they
                        also identify the DITA domains, structural types, and specializations that
                        are in use by the content.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
                <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="02 July 2019"
                        audience="spec-editors">
                        <p>The following paragraph is a candidate for a normative "SHOULD"
                                statement.</p>
                </draft-comment>
<p>The architectural attributes should not be marked up in the source DITA map and topics. Instead,
                                    the values of the architectural attributes are handled by the
                                    processor when the content is processed, preferably through
                                    defaults set in the XML grammar. This practice ensures that the
                                    DITA content instances do not specify invalid values for the
                                    architectural attributes.</p>
<p>The architectural attributes are as follows:</p>
<dl><dlentry>
<dt><xmlatt>class</xmlatt></dt>
<dd>This attribute identifies the specialization hierarchy for the element type.</dd>
        <!--<dd>Every DITA element (except the <xmlelement>dita</xmlelement> element that is used as the root of a ditabase document) <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> declare a <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute.</dd>-->
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt><xmlatt>domains</xmlatt></dt>
                                                <dd>This attribute identifies the domain modules
          (and optionally the structural modules) that are used in a map or topic. Each module also
          declares its module dependencies.</dd>
        <!--<dd>The root element of every topic and map <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> declare a <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> attribute.</dd>-->
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt><xmlatt>DITAArchVersion</xmlatt></dt>
<dd>This attribute identifies the version of the DITA architecture that is used by the XML grammar.
          The attribute is declared in a DITA namespace to allow namespace-sensitive tools to detect
          DITA markup.</dd>
        <!--<dd>The root element of every topic and map <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> declare a <xmlatt>DITAArchVersion</xmlatt> attribute.</dd>-->
</dlentry></dl>
<p>To make the document instance usable in the absence of an XML grammar, a normalization process
            can set the architectural attributes in the document instance.</p>
</conbody>
</concept>

