<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="branch_filtering_interactions">
    <title>How filtering rules interact</title>
    <shortdesc>With branch filtering, it is possible to set include or exclude rules globally,
        within a map, and within an already filtered map branch. The general rule for conflicts is
        that once specified, "exclude" conditions are in effect for the entire map or
        branch.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>Filtering rules often are specified globally in a conditional processing profile, outside
            of the content. When global conditions set a property value to "exclude", that setting
            overrides any other settings for the same property that are specified at a branch level.
            Global conditions that set a conditional property to "include" or "flag" do not override
            branch-level conditions that set the same property to "exclude".</p>
        <p>Using <xmlelement>ditavalref</xmlelement> elements, it is possible to specify one set of
            conditions for a branch and another set of conditions for a subset of the branch. As
            with global conditions, properties set to "exclude" for a map branch override any other
            settings for the same property specified for a subset of the branch. Branch conditions
            that set a conditional property to "include" or "flag" do not override conditions on a
            subset of the branch that explicitly set the same property to "exclude".</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
