<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="cascading-of-roles-in-specialized-maps" >
 <title>Cascading of roles from map to map</title>
 <shortdesc >When specialized <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements (such
    as <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>mapref</xmlelement>) reference a map, they
    typically imply a semantic role for the referenced content. </shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>cascading<indexterm>map-to-map<indexterm>exceptions</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>map-to-map cascading<indexterm>exceptions</indexterm></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <conbody>
    <!--IGNORE may-must-should word-->
    <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" audience="spec-editors" time="04 July 2019">
      <p>We need to look at the instances of "should" in this topic. Can they be recast? Do we need
        to introduce RFC-2119 language?</p>
    </draft-comment>
    <p>The semantic role reflects the <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> hierarchy of the referencing
        <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element; it is equivalent to having the
        <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute from the referencing <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
      cascade to the top-level <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements in the referenced map.
      Although this cascade behavior is not universal, there are general guidelines for when a role
      based on the <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute cascades.</p>
  <p>When a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element or a specialization of a
    <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element references a DITA resource, it defines a role for that
   resource. In some cases this role is straightforward, such as when a
    <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element references a DITA topic (giving it the already known
   role of "topic"), or when a <xmlelement>mapref</xmlelement> element references a DITA map (giving
   it the role of "DITA map").</p>
    <!--IGNORE may-must-should word-->
    <draft-comment author="rodaande" time="8 Feb 2022">The following paragraph includes the
      statement: "the non-default behavior should be clearly specified"<p>We do not say how or
        where. For mapgroup, I believe it is only specified here in this topic. I think either we
        need this as part of every mapgroup element definition, in "Processing expectations", or we
        need a clear table here listing every element where this behavior does not
      apply.</p></draft-comment>
  <p>Unless otherwise instructed, a specialized <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element that
      references a map supplies a role for the referenced content. This means that, in effect, the
        <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute of the referencing element cascades to top-level topicref
      elements in the referenced map. In situations where this should not happen—such as all
      elements from the mapgroup domain—the non-default behavior should be clearly specified.</p>
  <p>For example, when a <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element from the bookmap specialization
      references a map, it supplies a role of "chapter" for each top-level
        <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element in the referenced map. When the
        <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element references a branch in another map, it supplies a
      role of "chapter" for that branch. In effect, the <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute for
        <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> (<codeph>"- map/topicref bookmap/chapter "</codeph>)
      cascades to the top-level <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements in the nested map,
      although it does not cascade any further.</p>
  <p>Because the <xmlelement>mapref</xmlelement> element is a convenience element, the top-level
        <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements in the map referenced by a
        <xmlelement>mapref</xmlelement> element <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST NOT</term> be
      processed as if they are <xmlelement>mapref</xmlelement> elements. The <xmlatt>class</xmlatt>
      attribute from the <xmlelement>mapref</xmlelement> element (<codeph>"+ map/topicref
        mapgroup-d/mapref "</codeph>) does not cascade to the referenced map.</p>
  <p>In some cases, preserving the role of the referencing element might result in out-of-context
   content. For example, a <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element that references a bookmap might
   pull in <xmlelement>part</xmlelement> elements that contain nested
    <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> elements. Treating the <xmlelement>part</xmlelement> element as
   a <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> will result in a chapter that nests other chapters, which is
   not valid in bookmap and might not be understandable by processors. The result is implementation
   specific; processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> choose to treat
   this as an error, issue a warning, or simply assign new roles to the problematic elements.</p>
  <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example of cascading roles between maps</title>
      <p>Consider the scenario of a <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element that references a DITA
        map. This scenario could take several forms:<dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Referenced map contains a single top-level <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
              element</dt>
            <dd>The entire branch functions as if it were included in the bookmap; the top-level
                <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element is processed as if it were the
                <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Referenced map contains multiple top-level <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
              elements</dt>
            <dd>Each top-level <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element is processed as if it were
              a <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element (the referencing element).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Referenced map contains a single <xmlelement>appendix</xmlelement> element</dt>
            <dd>The <xmlelement>appendix</xmlelement> element is processed as it were a
                <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Referenced map contains a single <xmlelement>part</xmlelement> element, with nested
                <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> elements.</dt>
            <dd>The <xmlelement>part</xmlelement> element is processed as it were a
                <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element. Nested <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement>
              elements might not be understandable by processors; applications can recover as
              described above.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element references a single
                <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element rather than a map</dt>
            <dd>The referenced <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element is processed as if it were
              a <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
    </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
