<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="aboutchunk" xml:lang="en">
<title>About the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute</title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute is designed to handle cases where the best
        organization for authoring DITA topics is not equivalent to the best organization for
        publishing those topics.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
<p>The <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute is composed of a single token without any 
    white space. DITA defines two tokens for the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute:
                                <codeph>combine</codeph> and <codeph>split</codeph>. Other tokens
                        can be defined by applications, but support for those tokens will vary.</p>

<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt><codeph>chunk="combine"</codeph></dt>
<dd><ph conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/definitionChunkCombine"/></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><codeph>chunk="split"</codeph></dt>
<dd><ph conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/definitionChunkSplit"/></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
                <p>The <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute does not cascade to nested
                                <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements or to nested map
                        references.</p>
<p>The following rules apply to all values of the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute:</p>
<ul id="ul_g3y_wng_thb">
<li>The <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute describes how a processor can split or combine source DITA
documents into alternate organizational schemes for rendering purposes. This means that the
<xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute is only relevant when the organization of source DITA documents has
an effect on organization of published documents. When the source document organization has no
effect on published output, such as when producing a single PDF or EPUB, implementations <term
outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> ignore the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute.</li>
<li>When the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute results in more or fewer documents based on the
<codeph>combine</codeph> or <codeph>split</codeph> tokens, the hierarchy of topics within the
resulting map and topic organization <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> match the hierarchy
in the original topics and maps.</li>
<li>When the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute results in more or fewer documents, implementations
<term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> create their own naming schemes for those reorganized
documents.</li>
                        <!--<li>The <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute does not cascade to nested <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements or to nested map references.</li>-->
<li><xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute values apply to DITA topic documents referenced from a map.
Processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> apply equivalent processing to non-DITA
documents.</li>
</ul>

        <p>The <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute describes how a processor can split or combine source
            DITA documents into alternate organizational schemes for rendering purposes. This means
            that the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute is only relevant when the organization of
            source DITA documents has an effect on organization of published documents.</p>
        <p>The <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute does not cascade to nested
                <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements or to nested map references.</p>
<p>The following rules apply to all values of the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute:<ul>
                <li>When the source document organization has no effect on published output, such as
                    when producing a single PDF or EPUB, implementations <term
                        outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> ignore the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt>
                    attribute.</li>
                <li>When the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute results in more or fewer documents
                    based on the <codeph>combine</codeph> or <codeph>split</codeph> tokens, the
                    hierarchy of topics within the resulting map and topic organization <term
                        outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> match the hierarchy in the original
                    topics and maps.</li>
                <li>When the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute results in more or fewer documents,
                    implementations <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> create their own naming
                    schemes for those reorganized documents.</li>
                <li><xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute values apply to DITA topic documents referenced
                    from a map. Processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> apply equivalent
                    processing to non-DITA documents.</li>
            </ul></p>

</conbody>
</concept>
