<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="chunkingdetails" xml:lang="en-us">
   <title>Using the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute</title>
   <shortdesc>The specification defines tokens for the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute that cover
      the most common chunking scenarios. These tokens <ph rev="public-review-1">can</ph> be used to
      override whatever default chunking behavior is set by a processor. Chunking is necessarily
      format specific, with chunked output required for some and not supported for other rendered
      formats. Chunking is also implementation specific with some implementations supporting some,
      but not all, chunking methods, or adding new methods to the standard ones described in this
      specification. </shortdesc>
   <conbody>
      <section id="section1"><p>The value of the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute consists of one or
            more space delimited tokens. Tokens are defined in three categories: for selecting
            topics, for setting chunking policies, and for defining how the chunk values impact
            rendering. It is an error to use two tokens from the same category on a single
               <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element.</p><dl>
            <dlentry>
               <dt id="chunking-select-topic">Selecting topics</dt>
               <dd>When addressing a document that contains multiple topics, these values determine
                  which topics are selected. These values are ignored when the element on which they
                  are specified does not reference a topic. The defined values are:<ul
                     id="ul_a54387c0-37ce-4321-9214-89228cacbf2e">
                     <li><b><codeph>select-topic</codeph></b>: Selects an individual topic without
                        any ancestors, descendents, or peers from within the same document.</li>
                     <li><b><codeph>select-document</codeph></b>: Selects all topics in the target
                        document.</li>
                     <li><b><codeph>select-branch</codeph></b>: Selects the target topic together
                        with its descendent topics.</li>
                  </ul></dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
               <dt id="chunking-policy">Policies for splitting or combining documents</dt>
               <dd>The chunking policy tokens determine how source topics are chunked to produce
                  different output chunks, for output formats where that makes sense. When specified
                  on a <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element, the policy becomes the default policy
                  for all topic references. When specified on a topic reference, the policy applies
                  only to that <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> and not to any descendant
                     <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements.<ul
                     id="ul_32c4e9a4-a3ed-4338-9ffb-d3a2d52fa563">
                     <li><b><codeph>by-topic</codeph></b>: A separate output chunk is produced for
                        each of the selected topics. In particular, topics that are part of
                        multi-topic documents are processed as though they are the root topics
                        within a separate XML document.</li>
                     <li><b><codeph>by-document</codeph></b>: A single output chunk is produced for
                        the referenced topic or topics, as though the selected topics were all
                        children of the same document.</li>
                  </ul></dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
               <dt id="chunking-rendering">Rendering the selection</dt>
               <dd>The following tokens affect how the chunk values impact rendering of the map or
                     topics.<ul id="ul_5fc069d4-ac12-4ab1-9d55-bedca81b8daf">
                     <li><b><codeph>to-content</codeph></b>: The selection should be rendered as a
                        new chunk of content. <ul id="ul_9308eb24-c3e3-4add-9f54-5f0aefd08b6e">
                           <li>When specified on a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>, this means
                              that the topics selected by this <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> and
                              its children will be rendered as a single chunk of content.</li>
                           <li>When specified on the <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element, this
                              indicates that the contents of all topics referenced by the map are to
                              be rendered as a single document.</li>
                           <li>When specified on a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> that contains a
                              title but no target, this indicates that processors <term
                                 outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> generate a title-only topic in
                              the rendered result, along with any topics referenced by child
                                 <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements of this
                                 <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>. The rendition address of the
                              generated topic is determined as defined for the
                                 <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute. If the <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt>
                              attribute is not specified and the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
                              has no <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute, the address of the generated
                              topic is not required to be predictable or consistent across rendition
                              instances.</li>
                        </ul><p>For cross references to <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements,
                           if the value of the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute is "to-content" or
                           is unspecified, the cross reference is treated as a reference to the
                           target topic. If the reference is to a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
                           with no target, it is treated as a reference to the generated title-only
                           topic.</p></li>
                     <li><b><codeph>to-navigation</codeph>
                           <ph
                              conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/deprecated-attr"
                           /></b>: The "to-navigation" token is deprecated in DITA 1.3. In earlier
                        releases, the "to-navigation" token indicates that a new chunk of navigation
                        should be used to render the current selection (such as an individual Table
                        of Contents or related links). When specified on the
                           <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element, this token indicates that the map
                        should be presented as a single navigation chunk. If a cross reference is
                        made to a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> that has a title but no target,
                        and the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> value of that
                           <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> is set to "to-navigation", the
                        resulting cross reference is treated as a reference to the rendered
                        navigation document (such as an entry in the table of contents).</li>
                  </ul></dd>
            </dlentry>
         </dl><p>Some tokens or combinations of tokens might not be appropriate for all output
            types. When unsupported or conflicting tokens are encountered during output processing,
            processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> produce warning or error messages.
            Recovery from such conflicts or other errors is implementation dependent. </p><p>There
            is no default value for the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute on most elements and the
               <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute does not cascade from container elements, meaning
            that the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> value on one <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> is not
            passed to its children. A default by-xxx policy for an entire map <ph
               rev="public-review-1">can</ph> be established by setting the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt>
            attribute on the <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element, which will apply to any
               <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> that does not specify its own by-xxx
            policy.</p><p>When no <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute values are specified or
            defaulted, chunking behavior is implementation dependent. When variations of this sort
            are not desired, a default for a specific map can be established by including a
               <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute value on the <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element.
            </p><sectiondiv id="chunk-resource-naming">
            <p>When chunk processing results in new documents, the resource name or identifier for
               the new document (if relevant) is determined as follows:</p>
            <ol id="chunk-resource-naming-steps">
               <li>If an entire map is used to generate a single chunk (by placing to-content on the
                     <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element), the resource name <term
                     outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> be taken from the resource name of the
                  map.</li>
               <li>If the <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute is specified, the resource name <term
                     outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> taken from the <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt>
                  attribute.</li>
               <li>If the <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute is not specified and one or more keys
                  are specified on the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>, the resource name <term
                     outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> be constructed using one of the keys.</li>
               <li>If <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>keys</xmlatt> are not specified and the
                  by-topic policy is in effect, the resource name <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
                     >SHOULD</term> be taken from the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute of the
                  topic.</li>
               <li>If <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>keys</xmlatt> are not specified and the
                  by-document policy is in effect, the resource name <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
                     >SHOULD</term> be taken from the resource name of the referenced document.</li>
            </ol>
            <p>When following these steps results in resource name clashes, processors <term
                  outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> recover by generating alternate resource
               identifiers. For example, when two chunked topics use the same <xmlatt>id</xmlatt>
               attribute, a processor could recover by combining the original resource name with the
                  <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> value instead of using only the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> value.</p>
         </sectiondiv></section>
      <section id="implementation-tokens">
         <title>Implementation-specific tokens and future considerations </title>
         <p conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/attribute-implementation-tokens"/>
         <p>For example: “acme:level2” could be a token for the Acme DITA Toolkit that requests the
            “level2” chunking method.</p>
      </section>
   </conbody>
</concept>

