<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="chunking" xml:lang="en-us">
   <title>Chunking</title>
   <shortdesc>Content can be chunked (divided or merged into new output documents) in different ways
      for the purposes of delivering content and navigation. For example, content best authored as a
      set of separate topics might need to be delivered as a single Web page. A map author can use
      the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute to split up multi-topic documents into component topics
      or to combine multiple topics into a single document as part of output processing.</shortdesc>
   <conbody>
      <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
         <p>The <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute is commonly used for the following use cases.</p>
         <dl>
            <dlentry>
               <dt>Reuse of a nested topic</dt>
               <dd>A content provider creates a set of topics as a single document. Another user
                  wants to incorporate only one of the nested topics from the document. The new user
                  can reference the nested topic from a DITA map, using the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt>
                  attribute to specify that the topic should be produced in its own document.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
               <dt>Identification of a set of topics as a unit</dt>
               <dd>A curriculum developer wants to compose a lesson for a SCORM LMS (Learning
                  Management System) from a set of topics without constraining reuse of those
                  topics. The LMS can save and restore the learner's progress through the lesson if
                  the lesson is identified as a referenceable unit. The curriculum developer defines
                  the collection of topics with a DITA map, using the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt>
                  attribute to identify the learning module as a unit before generating the SCORM
                  manifest. </dd>
            </dlentry>
         </dl>
      </example>
   </conbody>
</concept>

