<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="chunkcombine" xml:lang="en">
<title>Processing <codeph>chunk="combine"</codeph></title>
    <shortdesc><ph rev="review-h">The presence of </ph>
    <codeph>chunk="combine"</codeph> instructs a processor to combine the
      <ph rev="review-h">referenced</ph> source documents for rendering
    purposes. A single result document is generated.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
        <p>The following rules apply:</p>
        <ul>
            <li>When <ph rev="review-h"><codeph>chunk="combine"</codeph> is
          specified</ph> on the root element of a map, all source DITA
        documents <ph rev="review-h">that are</ph> referenced by the map
        are treated as one DITA document.</li>
            <li>When <ph rev="review-h"><codeph>chunk="combine"</codeph> is
          specified</ph> on a branch of a map, all source DITA documents
          <ph rev="review-h">that are</ph> referenced within that branch
        are treated as one DITA document. <note>This is true regardless of
          whether the element that specifies <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> refers
          to a topic or specifies a heading. In cases such as
            <xmlelement>topicgroup</xmlelement> where a grouping element
          specifies <codeph>chunk="combine"</codeph>, the equivalent DITA
          document would be a single DITA document with a root element <ph
            rev="review-h">that groups</ph> peer topics.</note></li>
            <li>When <ph rev="review-h"><codeph>chunk="combine"</codeph> is
          specified</ph> on a reference to a map, all source DITA documents
          <ph rev="review-h">that are</ph> within the scope of the
        referenced map are treated as one DITA document.</li>
            <li><ph rev="review-h">When</ph>
        <codeph>chunk="combine"</codeph> is specified on a map, <ph
          rev="review-h">map</ph> branch, or map reference, all source DITA
        documents <ph rev="review-h">that are</ph> grouped by the reference
        are treated as a single resource. Any additional
          <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attributes on elements within the <ph
          rev="review-h">grouping</ph> are ignored.</li>
        </ul>
</conbody>
</concept>
