<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="conditional-processing-attributes" xml:lang="en-us">
   <title>Conditional processing attributes</title>
   <shortdesc>The metadata attributes specify properties of the content that can be used to
      determine how the content should be processed. Specialized metadata attributes can be defined
      to enable specific business-processing needs, such as semantic processing and data
      mining.</shortdesc>
   <prolog>
      <metadata>
         <keywords>
            <indexterm>attributes<indexterm>conditional processing</indexterm></indexterm>
            <indexterm>conditional processing<indexterm>attributes</indexterm></indexterm>
            <indexterm>filtering<indexterm>attributes</indexterm></indexterm>
            <indexterm>flagging<indexterm>attributes</indexterm></indexterm>
            <indexterm>metadata<indexterm>conditional processing attributes</indexterm></indexterm>
            <indexterm>outputclass
                  attribute<indexterm>example</indexterm><indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>
         </keywords>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <conbody>
      <p>Metadata attributes typically are used for the following purposes:</p>
      <ul>
         <li>Filtering content based on the attribute values, for example, to suppress or publish
            profiled content</li>
         <li>Flagging content based on the attribute values, for example, to highlight specific
            content on output</li>
         <li>Performing custom processing, for example, to extract business-critical data and store
            it in a database</li>
      </ul>
      <p>Typically <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>product</xmlatt>,
            <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>props</xmlatt>, <xmlatt >deliveryTarget</xmlatt>, and
         specializations of the <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attributes are used for filtering; the same
         attributes plus the <xmlatt>rev</xmlatt> attribute are used for flagging. The
            <xmlatt>status</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>importance</xmlatt> attributes, as well as custom
         attributes specialized from <xmlatt>base</xmlatt>, are used for application-specific
         behavior, such as identifying metadata to aid in search and retrieval.</p>
      <section id="filtering-and-flagging-attributes">
         <title>Filtering and flagging attributes</title>
         <p>The following conditional-processing attributes are available on most elements:</p>
         <dl>
            <dlentry>
               <dt><xmlatt>product</xmlatt></dt>
               <dd>The product that is the subject of the discussion. </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
               <dt><xmlatt>platform</xmlatt></dt>
               <dd>The platform on which the product is deployed.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
               <dt><xmlatt>audience</xmlatt></dt>
               <dd>The intended audience of the content.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/deliveryTarget">
               <dt/>
               <dd/>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
               <dt><xmlatt>rev</xmlatt></dt>
               <dd>The revision or draft number of the current document. (This is used only for
                  flagging.)</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
               <dt><xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt></dt>
               <dd>Other properties that do not require semantic identification.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
               <dt><xmlatt>props</xmlatt></dt>
               <dd>A generic conditional processing attribute that can be specialized to create new
                  semantic conditional-processing attributes.</dd>
            </dlentry>
         </dl>
         <!--<p>In general, a conditional processing attribute provides a list of one or more values separated with whitespace, <ph rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13056">or it contains one or more groups that subcategorize the attribute</ph>. For instance, <codeph>audience="administrator programmer"</codeph> qualifies the content as applying to administrators and programmers. <ph rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13056">Using groups, <codeph>product="database(A B) appserver(C)"</codeph> qualifies the content as applying to databases A and B, as well as to application server C.</ph></p>-->
      </section>
      <section id="other-metadata-attributes">
         <title>Other metadata attributes</title>
         <p>Other attributes are still considered metadata on an element, but they are not designed
            for filtering or flagging.</p>
         <dl>
            <dlentry>
               <dt><xmlatt>importance</xmlatt></dt>
               <dd>The degree of priority of the content. This attribute takes a single value from
                  an enumeration. </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
               <dt><xmlatt>status</xmlatt></dt>
               <dd>The current state of the content. This attribute takes a single value from an
                  enumeration.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
               <dt><xmlatt>base</xmlatt></dt>
               <dd>A generic attribute that has no specific purpose, but is intended to act as the
                  basis for specialized attributes that have a simple value syntax like the
                  conditional processing attributes (one or more alphanumeric values separated by
                  whitespace or parenthesized groups of values).</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
               <dt><xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt></dt>
               <dd>Provides a label on one or more element instances, typically to specify a role or
                  other semantic distinction. As the <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> attribute does not
                  provide a formal type declaration or the structural consistency of specialization,
                  it should be used sparingly, usually only as a temporary measure while a
                  specialization is developed. For example, <xmlelement>uicontrol</xmlelement>
                  elements that define button labels could be distinguished by adding an
                     <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> attribute:
                  <codeblock>&lt;uicontrol outputclass="button">Cancel&lt;/uicontrol></codeblock>The
                  value of the <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> attribute can be used to trigger XSLT or
                  CSS rules, while providing a mapping to be used for future migration to a more
                  specialized set of user interface elements.</dd>
            </dlentry>
         </dl>
      </section>
   </conbody>
</concept>

