<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="printing">
 <title>Conditional processing to generate multiple deliverable types</title>
 <shortdesc >By default, the content of most elements is included in all output media.
  Within maps and topics, elements can specify the delivery targets to which they apply.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p >Within maps, topic references can use the <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>
   attribute to indicate the delivery targets to which they apply. The map or topic references can
   still use the deprecated <xmlatt>print</xmlatt> attribute to indicate whether they are applicable
   to print deliverables. </p>
  <p >Within topics, most elements can use the <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>
   attribute to indicate the delivery targets to which they apply.</p>
  <p>If a referenced topic should be excluded from all output formats, set the
    <xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt> attribute to "resource-only" instead of using the
    <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>print</xmlatt> attribute. Content within that topic
   can still be referenced for display in other locations.</p>
  <section id="deliveryTarget">
   <title><xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt> attribute</title>
   <dl>
    <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/deliveryTarget">
     <dt/>
     <dd/>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
   <p >The <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt> attribute is processed the same way as any
    other conditional processing attribute. For example, the element <codeph>&lt;topicref
     deliveryTarget="html5 epub" href="example.dita"/></codeph> uses two values for
     <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>. A conditional processing profile can then set rules for
     <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt> that determine whether the topic
     <filepath>example.dita</filepath> is included or excluded when the map is rendered as HTML5 or
    EPUB.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="print">
   <title><xmlatt>print</xmlatt> attribute</title>
   <note >Beginning with DITA 1.3, the <xmlatt>print</xmlatt> attribute is deprecated.
    Its functionality is superseded by that of the <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt> conditional
    processing attribute described above.</note>
   <p>The <xmlatt>print</xmlatt> attribute supports the following enumerated values, each of which
    control the way that print-oriented processors handle the inclusion or exclusion of topics or
    groups of topics.</p>
   <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1* 2* 1* 1*">
    <sthead>
     <stentry>Value</stentry>
     <stentry>Example</stentry>
     <stentry>Print-oriented processing</stentry>
     <stentry>Non-print-oriented processing</stentry>
    </sthead>
    <strow>
     <stentry>Unspecified (default)</stentry>
     <stentry><codeph>&lt;topicref href="foo.dita"></codeph></stentry>
     <stentry>
      <p>Topics are <b>included</b> in output. </p>
     </stentry>
     <stentry>
      <p>Topics are <b>included</b> in output. </p>
     </stentry>
    </strow>
    <strow>
     <stentry>yes</stentry>
     <stentry><codeph>&lt;topicref href="foo.dita" print="yes"></codeph></stentry>
     <stentry>
      <p>Topics are <b>included</b> in output. </p>
     </stentry>
     <stentry>
      <p>Topics are <b>included</b> in output. </p>
     </stentry>
    </strow>
    <strow>
     <stentry>printonly</stentry>
     <stentry><codeph>&lt;topicref href="foo.dita" print="printonly"></codeph></stentry>
     <stentry>
      <p>Topics are <b>included</b> in output. </p>
     </stentry>
     <stentry>
      <p>Topics are <b>excluded</b> from the output. </p>
     </stentry>
    </strow>
    <strow>
     <stentry>no</stentry>
     <stentry><codeph>&lt;topicref href="foo.dita" print="no"></codeph></stentry>
     <stentry>
      <p>Topics are <b>excluded</b> from the output. </p>
     </stentry>
     <stentry>
      <p>Topics are <b>included</b> in output. </p>
     </stentry>
    </strow>
    <strow>
     <stentry>-dita-use-conref-target</stentry>
     <stentry><codeph>&lt;topicref conref="#foo-topic"
      print="-dita-use-conref-target"></codeph></stentry>
     <stentry>
      <p>Topics derive a value for the <xmlatt>print</xmlatt> attribute from the
        <xmlatt>print</xmlatt> attribute of the referenced element. </p>
      <p>See <xref href="../../langRef/attributes/ditauseconreftarget.dita"/> for more
       information.</p>
     </stentry>
     <stentry>
      <p>Topics derive a value for the <xmlatt>print</xmlatt> attribute from the
        <xmlatt>print</xmlatt> attribute of the referenced element. </p>
      <p>See <xref href="../../langRef/attributes/ditauseconreftarget.dita"/> for more
       information.</p>
     </stentry>
    </strow>
   </simpletable>
   <p>If a value for the <xmlatt>print</xmlatt> is not specified explicitly in a map element, but is
    specified in a map that references the map element, the <xmlatt>print</xmlatt> value cascades to
    the referenced map.</p>
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
