<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="condproc" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title>Conditional processing (profiling)</title>
    <shortdesc><ph
conkeyref="reuse-general/conditional-processing-shortdesc"/></shortdesc>
    <conbody>
<p>DITA defines attributes that can be used to enable filtering and flagging individual elements.
<ph conkeyref="reuse-general/propsAndSpecializations"/> allow conditions to
be assigned to elements so that the elements can be included, excluded, or flagged during
processing. The <xmlatt>rev</xmlatt> flagging attribute allows values to be assigned to elements so
that special formatting can be applied to those elements during processing. A conditional-processing
profile specifies which elements to include, exclude, or flag. DITA defines a document type called
DITAVAL for creating conditional-processing profiles.</p>
        <p>Processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> be able to perform filtering and
            flagging using the following attributes:  <xmlatt>props</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>product</xmlatt>, and
            <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt>.</p>
        <p>The <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attribute can be specialized to create new attributes, and
            processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> be able to perform conditional
            processing on specializations of <xmlatt>props</xmlatt>.</p>
    <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="13 March 2022">
      <p>The following content was in the container topic for the DITAVAL
        elements. I think it should be edited, rephrased as a normative
        statement, and covered here:</p>
      <p>Conditional processing code should provide a report of any
        attribute values encountered in content that do not have an action
        associated with them.</p>
    </draft-comment>
        <p>Although metadata elements exist with similar names, such as the
                <xmlelement>audience</xmlelement> element, processors are not required to perform
            conditional processing using metadata elements. </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>

