<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept_ycp_3jm_vp">
 <title>Constraint rules</title>
 <shortdesc>There are certain rules that apply to the design and implementation of
  constraints.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>constraints<indexterm>design and implementation rules</indexterm></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <conbody>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt >Contribution to the <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> attribute</dt>
    <dd>
     <p>Each constraint that is integrated into a DITA document type <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
       >MUST</term> be declared in the <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> attribute for each
      structural type that is integrated into the document type. <!--[Eberlein: 16 April 2014]: The reason for this normative statement is that if the constraint is not part of the domains contribution, processors cannot recognize the constraint during conref processing.-->
      <ph >For DTDs, the contribution for the <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt>
       attribute is specified in the constraint module file; for XSD and RELAX NG, the contribution
       to the <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> attribute is specified directly in the document type
       shell.</ph></p>
    </dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Content model</dt>
    <dd>
     <p >The content model for a constrained element must be <ph 
       >at least as restrictive</ph> as the unconstrained content model for the element.
      <!--[Eberlein: 12 January 2015]: For example, a constraint for <xmlelement>note</xmlelement> might restrict the values for <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> but leave the content model unchanged.--></p>
     <p>The content model and attributes of an element can be constrained by only one constraint
      module. If two constraint modules exist that constrain the content model or attributes for a
      specific element, <ph >those two modules must be replaced with a new
       constraint module that reflects the aggregation of the two original constraint
      modules.</ph></p>
    </dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Domain constraints</dt>
    <dd>
     <p>When a domain module is integrated into a document-type shell, the base domain element can
      be omitted from the domain extension group or parameter entity. In such a case, there is no
      separate constraint declaration, because the content model is configured directly in the
      document-type shell.</p>
     <p >A domain module can be constrained by only one constraint module. This
      means that all restrictions for the extension elements that are defined in the domain must be
      contained within that one constraint module.</p>
    </dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Structural constraints</dt>
    <dd>
     <p>Each constraint module <ph rev="public-review-1">can</ph> constrain elements from only one
      vocabulary module. <ph>For example, a single constraint module that constrains
        <xmlelement>refsyn</xmlelement> from <filepath>reference.mod</filepath> and constrains
        <xmlelement>context</xmlelement> from <filepath>task.mod</filepath> is not allowed.</ph>
      This rule maintains granularity of reuse at the module level.</p>
     <p>Constraint modules that restrict different elements from within the same vocabulary module
      can be combined with one
      another<!-- or with a constraint module that selects a subset of the extension element types for the vocabulary-->.
      Such combinations of constraints on a single vocabulary module have no meaningful order or
      precedence.</p>
    </dd>
   </dlentry>
   <!--<li><p>Designers have the option to declare a constraint module or combination of constraint modules to be more restrictive than another constraint module or combination of constraint modules on the same vocabulary module or a base vocabulary module. This option is particularly useful when a designer wants to constrain base and specialized element types in a consistent way. The advantage of declaring the consistency is that processors can take advantage of the consistency when converting document instances.<draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="8 April 2014" disposition="open"><p>From review #1:</p><p>Kimber: "Where are the details of this constraint relationship declaration defined?"</p><p>Eberlein: "I have no earthly clue. This content is exactly as it was for 1.2 :("</p></draft-comment></p><p>For example, a constraint module for <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> that requires both <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>body</xmlelement> is more restrictive than a constraint module that only requires <xmlelement>body</xmlelement>. By declaring this relationship, a designer can indicate that documents that use the first constraint also comply with the looser constraint.</p></li>-->
  </dl>
 </conbody>
</concept>
