<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept_ofy_pmz_vq">
 <title>Weak and strong constraints</title>
 <shortdesc>Constraints can be classified into two categories: Weak and strong. This classification
    determines whether processors enforce strict compatibility during <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> or
      <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> resolution.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>constraints<indexterm>compatibility checking</indexterm><indexterm>compatibility
      enforcement</indexterm><indexterm>weak and strong</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm><xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> attribute<indexterm>constraint
     compatibility</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>processing expectations<indexterm>checking of constraint
            compatibility</indexterm><indexterm>enforcing constraint
          compatibility</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>strong constraints</indexterm>
    <indexterm>weak constraints</indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Strong constraints</dt>
        <dd>Constraints for which processors enforce strict compatibility during
            <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> resolution.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Weak constraints</dt>
        <dd>Constraints for which a processor does not enforce strict compatibility during
            <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> resolution.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <p>By default, constraints are weak unless they are explicitly designated as strong. </p>
    <p>Any constraint declaration can designate a constraint as strong. A constraint can be
      designated as strong by prefixing the letter "s" to the domains attribute contribution, for
      example, <codeph>"s(topic task strictTaskbody-c)"</codeph>. Processors also can be configured
      to treat all constraints as strong.</p>
    <p>The following behavior is expected of processors:<ul>
        <li>Processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> perform constraint compatibility
          checking.</li>
        <li>If processors perform constraint compatibility checking, they <term
            outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> enforce strict compatibility for strong
          constraints.</li>
        <li>Processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> have an option for configuring
          whether all constraints are treated as strong constraints.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
