<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept_nqd_ys5_kq">
 <title>Constraints, processing, and interoperability</title>
 <shortdesc>Because constraints can make optional elements required, documents that use the same
  vocabulary modules might have incompatible constraints. Thus the use of constraints can affect the
  ability for content from one topic or map to be used in another topic or map.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>constraints<indexterm>processing and interoperability</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>interoperability<indexterm>constraints</indexterm></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <conbody>
  <p>A constraint does not change basic or inherited element semantics. The constrained instances
   remain valid instances of the unconstrained element type, and the element type retains the same
   semantics and <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute declaration. Thus, a constraint never creates a
   new case to which content processing might need to react. </p>
  <p otherprops="examples">For example, a document type constrained to require the
    <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element allows a subset of the possible instances of the
   unconstrained document type with an optional <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element. Thus,
   the content processing for topic still works when <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> is constrained
   to require a short description.</p>
  <p otherprops="examples">For example, an unconstrained task is compatible with an unconstrained
   topic, because the <xmlelement>task</xmlelement> element can be generalized to
    <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement>. However, if the topic is constrained to require the
    <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element, a document type with an unconstrained task is not
   compatible with the constrained document type, because some instances of the task might not have
   a <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element. However, if the task document type also has been
   constrained to require the <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element, it is compatible with the
   constrained topic document type. </p>
  <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="14 May 2021">
   <p>For DITA 2.0, we've removed the requirement to add tokens for constraints; accordingly I
    removed the following paragraph:</p>
   <p>"A constrained document type allows only a subset of the possible instances of the
    unconstrained document type. Thus, for a processor to determine whether a document instance is
    compatible with another document type, the document instance <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
     >MUST</term> declare any constraints on the document type."</p>
   <p>Does this topic make sense without that paragraph? How do we need to rework it? Does it need
    to cover anything about</p>
  </draft-comment>
 </conbody>
</concept>
