<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept_sv4_2gm_vp">
 <title>Overview of constraints</title>
 <shortdesc>Constraint modules enable information architects to restrict the content models or
  attributes of DITA elements. A constraint is a simplification of an XML grammar such that any
  instance that conforms to the constrained grammar also will conform to the original
  grammar.<!-- The reverse is not true.--></shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>constraints<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <conbody>
  <p>A constraint module can perform the following functions:</p>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Restrict the content model for an element</dt>
    <dd>Constraint modules can modify content models by removing optional elements, making optional
     elements required, or requiring unordered elements to occur in a specific sequence. Constraint
     modules cannot make required elements optional or change the order of element occurrence for
     ordered elements.<p otherprops="examples">For example, a constraint for
       <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> can require <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement>, can remove
       <xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement>, and can require that the first child of
       <xmlelement>body</xmlelement> be <xmlelement>p</xmlelement>. A constraint cannot allow
       <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> to follow <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement>, because the
      content model for <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement>
      <ph >requires that <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> precedes
        <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement>.</ph></p></dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Restrict the attributes that are available on an element</dt>
    <dd>
     <p>Constraint modules can restrict the attributes that are available on an element. They also
      can limit the set of permissible values for an attribute.</p>
     <p otherprops="examples">For example, a constraint for <xmlelement>note</xmlelement> can limit
      the set of allowed values for the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute to "note" and "tip". It also
      can omit the <xmlatt>othertype</xmlatt> attribute, since it is needed only when the value of
      the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute is "other".</p>
    </dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Restrict the elements that are available in a domain</dt>
    <dd>
     <p>Constraint modules can restrict the set of extension elements that are provided in a domain.
      They also can restrict the content models for the extension elements.</p>
     <p otherprops="examples">For example, a constraint on the programming domain can reduce the
      list of included extension elements to <xmlelement>codeph</xmlelement> and
       <xmlelement>codeblock</xmlelement>.</p>
     <note rev="2.0">For DITA implementations that use RNG-based grammar file, restricting the set of
      extension elements that are provided in a domain can be handled simply by document-type
      configuration.</note>
    </dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Replace base elements with  domain extensions</dt>
    <dd>Constraint modules can replace base element types with the domain-provided extension
      elements.<p>For example, a constraint module can replace the <xmlelement>ph</xmlelement>
      element with the domain-provided elements, making <xmlelement>ph</xmlelement>
     unavailable.</p></dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
 </conbody>
</concept>
