<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="controlled-values-for-attributes">
    <title><ph >Defining</ph> controlled values for attributes</title>
    <shortdesc>Subject scheme maps can define controlled values for DITA attributes without having
        to define specializations or constraints. The list of available values can be modified
        quickly to adapt to new situations.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>controlled values<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>examples<indexterm>subjectScheme<indexterm>providing a subject-definition
                            resource</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>processing expectations<indexterm>controlled
                        values</indexterm><indexterm>subject-definition
                    resources</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>subject-definition resources</indexterm>
                <indexterm>subjectScheme<indexterm>defining controlled
                            values</indexterm><indexterm>examples<indexterm>providing a
                            subject-definition resource</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>Each controlled value is defined using a <xmlelement>subjectdef</xmlelement> element,
            which is a specialization of the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element. The
                <xmlelement>subjectdef</xmlelement> element is used to define both a subject
            category and a list of controlled values. The parent <xmlelement>subjectdef</xmlelement>
            element defines the category, and the children <xmlelement>subjectdef</xmlelement>
            elements define the controlled values.</p>
        <p>The subject definitions can include additional information within a
                <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element to clarify the meaning of a value:<ul>
                <li>The <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> element can provide a more readable value
                    name.</li>
                <li>The <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element can provide a definition.</li>
            </ul></p>
        <p>In addition, the <xmlelement>subjectdef</xmlelement> element can reference a more
            detailed definition of the subject, for example, another DITA topic or an external
            resource.</p>
        <p>The following behavior is expected of processors in regard to subject scheme maps:<ul>
                <li>Authoring tools <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> use these lists of
                    controlled values to provide lists from which authors can select values when
                    they specify attribute values.</li>
                <li>Authoring tools <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> give an organization a
                    list of readable labels, a hierarchy of values to simplify selection, and a
                    shared definition of the value.</li>
                <li>Authoring tools  <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term>
                    <ph>support accessing and displaying the content of the subject definition
                        resource in order to provide users with</ph> a detailed explanation of the
                    subject.</li>
                <li>Authoring tools  <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> produce a help file,
                    PDF, or other readable catalog to help authors better understand the controlled
                    values.</li>
            </ul></p>
        <example  id="example" otherprops="examples">
            <title>Example: Controlled values that provide additional information about the
                subject</title>
            <p>The following code fragment illustrates how a subject definition can provide a richer
                level of information about a controlled value:</p>
            <codeblock>&lt;subjectdef keys="terminology" href="https://www.oasis-open.org/policies-guidelines/keyword-guidelines">
  &lt;subjectdef keys="rfc2119" href="rfc-2119.dita">
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;navtitle>RFC-2119 terminology&lt;/navtitle>
      &lt;shortdesc>The normative terminology that the DITA TC uses for the DITA specification&lt;/shortdesc>
    &lt;/topicmeta>
  &lt;/subjectdef>
  &lt;subjectdef keys="iso" href="iso-terminology.dita">
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;navtitle>ISO keywords&lt;/navtitle>
      &lt;shortdesc>The normative terminology used by some other OASIS technical committees&lt;/shortdesc>
    &lt;/topicmeta>
  &lt;/subjectdef>
&lt;/subjectdef></codeblock>
            <p>The content of the <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> and
                    <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> elements provide additional information that
                a processor might display to users as they select attribute values or classify
                content. The resources referenced by the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attributes provide
                even more detailed information; a processor might render expandable links as part of
                a user interface that implements a progressive disclosure strategy.</p>
        </example>
    </conbody>
</concept>
