<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="definition-of-ditamaps" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Definition of DITA maps</title>
<shortdesc><ph conkeyref="reuse-general/maps-shortdesc"/></shortdesc>
        <prolog>
                <metadata>
                        <keywords>
                                <indexterm>maps<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>
                                <indexterm>DITA maps<index-see>maps</index-see></indexterm>
                        </keywords>
                </metadata>
        </prolog>
<conbody>
<p>Maps draw on a rich set of existing best practices and standards
for defining information             models, such as hierarchical
task analysis. They also support the definition of             non-hierarchical
relationships, such as matrices and groups, which provide a set of
            capabilities that has similarities to Resource Description
Framework (RDF) and ISO topic             maps.</p>
<p>DITA maps use <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements to reference DITA topics, DITA maps, and
                        non-DITA resources, for example, HTML and TXT files. The
                                <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements can be nested or grouped
                        to create relationships among the referenced topics, maps, and non-DITA
                        files; the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements can be organized into
                        hierarchies in order to represent a specific order of navigation or
                        presentation.</p>
<p>DITA maps impose an architecture on a set of topics. Information
architects can use DITA             maps to specify what DITA topics
are needed to support a given set of user goals and             requirements;
the sequential order of the topics; and the relationships that exist
among             those topics. Because DITA maps provide this context
for topics, the topics themselves             can be relatively context-free;
they can be used and reused in multiple different             contexts.</p>
<p>DITA maps often represent a single deliverable, for example, a specific Web site, a printed
                        publication, or the online help for a product. DITA maps also can be
                        subcomponents for a single deliverable, for example, a DITA map might
                        contain the content for a chapter in a printed publication or the
                        troubleshooting information for an online help system. The DITA
                        specification provides specialized map types; book maps represent printed
                        publications, and subject scheme maps represent taxonomic or ontological
                        classifications. However, these map types are only a starter set of map
                        types reflecting well-defined requirements.<draft-comment author="robander"
                                time="7 April 2023">Updated to remove "learning" as a type of map
                                the spec provides.<p>With tech comm becoming a separate spec, is it
                                        really correct to say "The DITA specification
                                        provides...book maps"? We could say "The DITA specifications
                                        provide" (plural)? That seems simpler for an overview topic
                                        than trying to explain "This package has one specialization
                                        and another package [out later] has book
                                maps"</p></draft-comment></p>
<p>DITA maps establish relationships through the nesting of <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
                        elements and the application of the <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt>
                        attribute. Relationship tables also <ph >can</ph> be
                        used to associate topics with each other based on membership in the same
                        row; for example, task topics can be associated with supporting concept and
                        reference topics by placing each group in cells of the same row. During
                        processing, these relationships can be rendered in different ways, although
                        they typically result in lists of "Related topics" or "For more information"
                        links. Like many aspects of DITA, the details about how such linking
                        relationships are presented is determined by the DITA processor.</p>
        <p>DITA maps also define keys and organize the <ph 
                                >contexts</ph>
                        <ph >(<term>key scopes</term></ph>) in which key references
                        are resolved.</p>
</conbody>
</concept>
