<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_afm_sz2_t3b" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Determining effective attribute values</title>
<shortdesc>Topic to be moved to more appropriate location: how to determine effective attribute
values.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
<p>Need to reconcile the two different existing lists, in <xref
href="processing-cascading-attributes-in-a-map.dita"/> and <xref
href="binding-controlled-values-to-attribute.dita"/>.</p>
<section id="section_wd2_c1f_t3b">
<title>From "processing cascading attributes"</title>
<p>For attributes within a map, the following processing order <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
>MUST</term> occur:<ol id="ol_6eb4fb9c-b56f-4471-bb2d-b183fef5980c">
<li id="common-start">The <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attributes are
evaluated.</li>
<li id="explicit-values">The explicit values specified in the document instance are evaluated. For
example, a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element with the <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt> attribute set to
"no" will use that value.</li>
<li>The default or fixed attribute values are evaluated. For example, the <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt>
attribute on the <xmlelement>reltable</xmlelement> element has a default value of "no".</li>
<li id="common-end">The default values that are supplied by a controlled values file are
evaluated.</li>
<li id="attributes-cascade">The attributes cascade.</li>
<li>The processing-supplied default values are applied.</li>
<li>After the attributes are resolved within the map, they cascade to referenced maps.
<draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="15 May 2019" audience="spec-editors">
<p>The following note is problematic. It contains a normative statement, but we explicitly state
that notes are non-normative.</p>
<p>Discussed at TC call on 28 May 2019.</p>
</draft-comment><note>The processing-supplied default values do not cascade to other maps. For
example, most processors will supply a default value of <codeph>toc="yes"</codeph> when no
<xmlatt>toc</xmlatt> attribute is specified. However, a processor-supplied default of
<codeph>toc="yes"</codeph>
<term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> not override a value of <codeph>toc="no"</codeph> that is
set on a referenced map. If the <codeph>toc="yes"</codeph> value is explicitly specified, is given
as a default through a DTD, XSD, RNG, or controlled values file, or cascades from a containing
element in the map, it <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> override a <codeph>toc="no"</codeph>
setting on the referenced map. See <xref href="map-to-map-cascading-of-metadata.dita"/> for more
details.</note></li>
<li>Repeat steps <xref href="#./common-start" type="li"/> to <xref href="#./common-end" type="li"/>
for each referenced map.</li>
<li>The attributes cascade within each referenced map.</li>
<li>The processing-supplied default values are applied within each referenced map.</li>
<li>Repeat the process for maps referenced within the referenced maps.</li>
</ol></p>
</section>
<section id="section_ngh_b1f_t3b">
<title>From "binding controlled values"</title>
<p>To determine the effective value for a DITA attribute, processors check for the following in the
order outlined:</p>
<ol id="ol_o2r_b1f_t3b">
<li>An explicit value in the element instance</li>
<li>A default value in the XML grammar</li>
<li>Cascaded value within the document</li>
<li>Cascaded value from a higher level document to the document</li>
<li>A default controlled value, as specified in the <xmlelement>defaultSubject</xmlelement> element </li>
<li>A value set by processing rules</li>
</ol>
</section>
</conbody>
</concept>
