<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="diratt" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>The <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt> attribute</title>
  <shortdesc>The <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt> attribute provides instructions to processors about how
      <term>bi-directional text</term> is rendered.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>bi-directional text</indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>dir</xmlatt> attribute</indexterm>
        <indexterm>processing expectations<indexterm>bi-directional text</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="biditext">
      <p>Bi-directional text is text that contains text in both text directionalities, right-to-left
        (RTL) and left-to-right (LTR). For example, languages such as Arabic, Hebrew, Farsi, Urdu,
        and Yiddish have text written from right-to-left; however, numerics and embedded sections of
        Western language text are written from left to right. Some multilingual documents also
        contain a mixture of text segments in two directions.</p>
      <p>DITA contains the following attributes that have an effect on bi-directional text processing:<dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Identifies the language and locale, and so can be used to identify text that
              requires bi-directional rendering.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlatt>dir</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Identifies or overrides the text directionality. It can be set to "ltr", "rtl",
              "lro", or "rlo"</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
      <p>In general, properly-written mixed text does not need any special markers; the Unicode
        bidirectional algorithm positions the punctuation correctly for a given language. The
        processor is responsible for displaying the text properly. However, some rendering systems
        might need directions for displaying bidirectional text, such as Arabic, properly. For
        example, Apache FOP might not render Arabic properly unless the left-to-right and
        right-to-left indicators are used.</p>
      <p>The use of the <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt> attribute and the Unicode algorithm is explained in the
        article <xref href="http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/struct/dirlang.html#h-8.2" scope="external"
          format="html"> Specifying the direction of text and tables: the <codeph>dir</codeph>
          attribute (http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/struct/dirlang.html#h-8.2) </xref>. This article
        contains several examples of how to use the <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt> attribute set to either
        "ltr" or "rtl". There is no example of setting the <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt> attribute to either
        "lro" or "rlo", although it can be inferred from the example that uses the
          <xmlelement>bdo</xmlelement> element, a now-deprecated W3C mechanism for overriding the
        entire Unicode bidirectional algorithm.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="recommended-usage">
      <title>Recommended usage</title>
      <p>The <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt> attribute, together with the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute,
        is essential for rendering table columns and definition lists in the proper order.</p>
      <p>In general text, the Unicode Bidirectional algorithm, as specified by the
          <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute together with the <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt> attribute,
        provides for various levels of bidirectionality:<ul>
          <li>Directionality is either explicitly specified via the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt>
            attribute in combination with the <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt> attribute on the highest level
            element (topic or derived peer for topics, map for ditamaps) or assumed by the
            processing application.
            <!--If used, it is recommended to specify the <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt> attribute <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> be specified on the highest level element in the topic or document element of the map. --></li>
          <li>When embedding a right-to-left text run inside a left-to-right text run (or
            vice-versa), the default direction might provide incorrect results based on the
            rendering mechanism, especially if the embedded text run includes punctuation that is
            located at one end of the embedded text run. Unicode defines spaces and punctuation as
            having neutral directionality and defines directionality for these neutral characters
            when they appear between characters having a strong directionality (most characters that
            are not spaces or punctuation). While the default direction is often sufficient to
            determine the correct directionality of the language, sometimes it renders the
            characters incorrectly (for example, a question mark at the end of a Hebrew question
            might appear at the beginning of the question instead of at the end or a parenthesis
            might render incorrectly). To control this behavior, the <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt> attribute
            is set to "ltr" or "rtl" as needed, to ensure that the desired direction is applied to
            the characters that have neutral bidirectionality. The "ltr" and "rtl" values override
            only the neutral characters (for example, spaces and punctuation), not all Unicode
            characters. <note>Problems with Unicode rendering can be caused by the rendering
              mechanism. The problems are not due to the XML markup itself. </note></li>
          <li>Sometimes you might want to override the default directionality for strongly
            bidirectional characters. Overrides are done using the "lro" and "rlo" values, which
            overrides the Unicode Bidirectional algorithm. This override forces a direction on the
            contents of the element. These override attributes give the author a brute force way of
            setting the directionality independent of the Unicode Bidirectional algorithm. The
            gentler "ltr" and "rtl" values have a less radical effect, only affecting punctuation
            and other so-called neutral characters. </li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>For most authoring needs, the "ltr" and "rtl" values are sufficient.
        <!--Only when the desired effect cannot be achieved using these values, should the override values be used. -->Use
        the override values only when you cannot achieve the desired effect using the "ltr" and
        "rtl" values.</p>
      <!-- [JTH: 21 Sept 2009] This comment appears to be seriously out of date.
                <p>While the Unicode standard includes hidden markers for directionality without the
                need for markup, these markers should not be used. It is strongly recommended to
                mark up the document using the dir attribute <ph>with the xml:lang
                attribute</ph> to set directionality. Using <ph>XML</ph> markup
                instead of the Unicode markers has the following advantages: <ul>
                <li>The document will be as portable as possible. </li>
                <li>The document can be processed by applications that do not fully implement
                the Unicode BIDI algorithm. </li>
                <li>The marked-up document can be read and understood by humans. </li>
                <li>When updating the document, the boundaries of each text flow are clear,
                which makes it much easier for the author to update the document. </li>
                </ul></p> -->
    </section>
    <section id="processing-expectations">
      <title>Processing expectations</title>
      <!--<p>Users should be aware that descriptive markup isnâ•˙t necessarily
            the end of their work. Each possible output rendition or display tool
            may have different requirements for managing bidirectional text. Just
            as different HTML browsers offer different levels of support for CSS,
            different output tools implement the bidirectional algorithm, and
            its accompanying directional controls, differently. For example, HTML
            displayed in Internet Explorer may have different requirements than
            HTML displayed in Firefox. Similarly, a control that works in one
            part of an HTML file, such as the body of the page, might not work
            in another, such as the title or the index in compiled HTML Help.
            The same uncertainty can be found in almost any output. PostScript
            or PDF rendering tools treat bidirectional text differently. Microsoft
            Word and OpenOffice Writer donâ•˙t handle bidirectional RTF in the same
            way. Flash has little concern for directional markup of any kind,
            but does format strings according to the Unicode algorithm. </p><p>Because
            input is unpredictably dependent on eventual output, it is not sufficient
            to apply the â•˛dirâ•ˇ attribute in such a way as to make the XML appear
            as it should in an editor. Additional care must be taken to make sure
            that markup is correctly transformed (or added to the source XML,
            if needed), with respect both to the target output format and the
            target output tool. To use the case of HTML, this could mean creating
            output tailored to the capabilities of the most common likely browser
            or creating output tailored to the least capable browser and ensuring
            the markup functions for the most likely and capable one. For example,
            bidirectional HTML that displays perfectly in Internet Explorer might
            not display correctly in Safari. However, if the HTML displays perfectly
            in Safari, chances are very good it will display correctly in Internet
            Explorer as well. This isnâ•˙t a certainty, however. Each case should
            be tested and confirmed by qualified individuals. </p>-->
      <p>Applications that process DITA documents, whether at the authoring, translation,
        publishing, or any other stage, <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> fully support the
        Unicode bidirectional algorithm to correctly implement the script and directionality for
        each language that is used in the document.</p>
      <p>Applications <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> ensure that the
        root element in every topic document and the root element in the root map has values for the
          <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attributes.</p>
    </section>
    <!--<section><title>Content removed</title><ph>For example, to correctly render in a Web browser a text in Arabic with embedded English content, the root element should contain <codeph>xml:lang="ar"</codeph> and <codeph>dir="rtl"</codeph>. All text, including punctuation marks, will be set correctly. </ph></section>-->
  </refbody>
</reference>

