<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="dita-maps-and-their-usage">
    <title>DITA maps and their usage</title>
    <shortdesc>New container topic to hold normative architectural content about DITA maps.
        Currently holds a laundry list of material intended to be covered in the new topic
        cluster.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <ul>
            <li>How <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements are processed to create documents
                with hierarchies</li>
            <li>Map-group elements and how they are processed<ul>
                    <li>Role as convenience elements</li>
                    <li>Special role of <xmlelement>topicgroup</xmlelement>, which does not
                        contribute to hierarchy</li>
                </ul></li>
            <li>How relationship tables are processed</li>
            <li>How titles (and navigation titles) on maps, submaps, mapgroup elements, and
                relationship tables are processed</li>
            <li>Link relationships created by attributes and nesting in DITA maps?</li>
        </ul>
        <table>
            <title>Current topics with applicable content</title>
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
                <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2*"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Topic</entry>
                        <entry>Applicable content</entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>3.4.5.1 Example: DITA map that references a subordinate map</entry>
                        <entry>Resolution of a submap.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>3.4.5.2 Example: DITA map with a simple relationship table</entry>
                        <entry>How links are generated from a relationship table; how processors
                            might represent a relationship table.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>3.4.5.3 Example: How the <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> and
                                <xmlatt>linking</xmlatt> determine links</entry>
                        <entry>Effect of <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> and
                                <xmlatt>linking</xmlatt> attributes on generated links.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>6.1 Navigation</entry>
                        <entry>Container topic; incorporate into new "DITA maps and their usage"
                            cluster.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>6.1.1 Table of contents</entry>
                        <entry>All content is applicable and needs to be incorporated into the new
                            "DITA maps and their usage" cluster – Closest thing we currently have to
                            a topic about how maps create hierarchies.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>9.3.1.1 <xmlelement>map</xmlelement></entry>
                        <entry>Relationships between topics created by map hierarchy or
                                <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> attribute; role of titles,
                            especially in submaps.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>9.3.1.2 <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement></entry>
                        <entry>Role of <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> nesting in creating
                            containment hierarchies and parent-child relationships.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>9.3.1.6 <xmlelement>reltable</xmlelement></entry>
                        <entry>Relationship table titles – Processing expectations for relationship
                            tables (not rendered, used to generate links) – <q>Within a map tree,
                                the effective relationship table is the union of all relationship
                                tables in the map.</q> – How a DITA-aware tool might represent the
                            &lt;reltable> element graphically:</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>9.3.1.10 <xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement></entry>
                        <entry>How labels for related links from a relationship table are
                            generated</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>9.3.2.3 <xmlelement>mapref</xmlelement></entry>
                        <entry><q>The hierarchy of the referenced map is merged into the container
                                map at the position of the reference, and the relationship tables of
                                the child map are added to the parent map.</q></entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>9.3.2.4 <xmlelement>topicgroup</xmlelement></entry>
                        <entry>How processors handle navigation titles within
                                <xmlelement>topicgroup</xmlelement> elements.</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
    </conbody>
</concept>
