<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="ditaspecialization" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Overview of DITA extension facilities</title>
  <shortdesc rev="2.0">DITA provides three extension facilities:
    Document-type configuration, specialization, and element-type
    configuration.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm/>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt rev="2.0">Document-type configuration</dt>
        <dd><ph rev="2.0">Document-type configuration</ph> enables the definition of DITA document
          types that include only the vocabulary modules that are required for a given set of
          documents. There is no need to modify the vocabulary modules. <ph rev="2.0">Document-type
            configurations</ph> are implemented as document-type shells.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Specialization</dt>
        <dd>Specialization enables the creation of new element types in a
          way that preserves the ability to interchange those new element
          types with conforming DITA applications. Specializations are
          implemented as vocabulary modules, which are integrated into
          document-type shells.<p><ph rev="2.0">Specialization modules</ph>
            declare the elements and entities that are unique to a
            specialization. The separation of the vocabulary and its
            declarations into modules makes it easy to extend existing
            modules, because new modules can be added without affecting
            existing document types. It also makes it easy to assemble
            elements from different sources into a single document-type
            shell and to reuse specific parts of the specialization
            hierarchy in more than one document-type shell.</p><p rev="2.0"
            >DITA content that uses specializations can be treated as or
            converted to unspecialized markup through the process of
            generalization. The information about the original specialized
            form can be retained.</p></dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry rev="2.0">
        <dt>Element-type configuration</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Element-type configuration enables DITA architects to modify the content models and
            attribute lists for individual elements, without modifying the vocabulary modules in
            which the elements are defined.</p>
          <p>There are two types of element configuration: Constraint and expansion. Both constraint
            and expansion are implemented as modules that are integrated into document-type
            shells:</p>
          <dl>
            <dlentry>
              <dt>Constraint</dt>
              <dd>Constraint modules enable the restriction of content
                models and attribute lists for individual elements.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
              <dt>Expansion</dt>
              <dd>Expansion modules enable the expansion of content models and attribute lists for
                individual elements.</dd>
            </dlentry>
          </dl>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
  </conbody>
</concept>
