<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="ditamap-elements" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>DITA map elements</title>
  <shortdesc>A DITA map describes the relationships among a set of DITA topics. The DITA map and
    map-group domain elements organize topics into hierarchies, groups, and relationships; they also
    define keys.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>maps<indexterm>elements</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>A DITA map is composed of the following elements:</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><xmlelement>map</xmlelement></dt>
        <dd>The <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element is the root element of the DITA map.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement></dt>
        <dd>
          <p>The <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements are the basic elements of a map. A
              <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element can reference a DITA topic, a DITA map, or a
            non-DITA resource. A <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element also can have a title,
            short description, and the same kind of prolog-level metadata that is available in
            topics. </p>
          <p>The <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements can be nested to create a hierarchy,
            which can be used to define a table of contents (TOC) for print output, online
            navigation, and parent/child links. Hierarchies can be annotated using the
              <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> attribute to define a particular type of
            relationship, such as a set of choices, a sequence, or a family. These collection types
            can affect link generation, and they <ph>might</ph> be interpreted differently for
            different outputs.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><xmlelement>reltable</xmlelement></dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Relationship tables are defined with the <xmlelement>reltable</xmlelement> element.
            Relationship tables can be used to define relationships among DITA topics or among DITA
            topics and non-DITA resources. In a relationship table, the columns define common
            attributes, metadata, or information types (for example, task or troubleshooting) for
            the resources that are referenced in that column. The rows define relationships between
            the resources in different cells of the same row.</p>
          <p>The <xmlelement>relrow</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>relcell</xmlelement>,
              <xmlelement>relheader</xmlelement>, and <xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement> elements
            are used to define the components of the relationship table. Relationships defined in
            the relationship table also can be further refined by using the
              <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> attribute.</p>
          <!--<draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein" time="6 July 2009">Here
is the text that Elliot Kimber suggested in the first review:<p>A
relationship table defines a set of relationships of a specific type
among sets of topics or non-DITA resources. Each column in the table
represents a specific role within the relationship type (e.g., "concept",
"reference", and task columns in a table that establishes "related
information" relationships") and defines common metadata for all topicrefs
within the column. Each row of the table represents an instance of
the relationship and each cell of the row contains topicrefs to the
topics that play that column's row in the relationship instance.</p></draft-comment><draft-comment
author="Kristen James Eberlein" time="29 August 2009">Here is an additional
Wiki comment from Elliot:<p>"My primary intent was to make explicit
that each row is a typed relationship and each column represents a
distinct role in that relationship. Your rewrite loses the type and
role aspect. That is, the cascade of attribute values from columns
to cell members is useful but not the most important aspect of rel
tables. What is most important is that each column is a specific role.
It happens that the current main use of reltables is to represent
a fair weak "related info" relationship where the roles happen to
correspond to topic types. But topic type is not the only or necessarily
most interesting sort of role. For example, in a training context
I might have a relationship type "associated regulation" with roles
"regulation" and "instruction" that serve to bind specific regulations
to specific instruction topics or map trees."</p></draft-comment>-->
          <!--<draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein" time="17 September 2009">Elliot,
can you suggest an example to illustrate the point that you want to
make?</draft-comment>-->
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><xmlelement>topicgroup</xmlelement></dt>
        <dd>The <xmlelement>topicgroup</xmlelement> element defines a group or collection outside of
          a hierarchy or relationship table. It is a convenience element that is equivalent to a
            <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element without an <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute or
          navigation title. Groups can be combined with hierarchies and relationship tables, for
          example, by including a <xmlelement>topicgroup</xmlelement> element within a set of
          siblings in a hierarchy or within a table cell. The <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
          elements so grouped can then share inherited attributes and linking relationships with no
          effect on the navigation or table of contents.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement></dt>
        <dd>Most map-level elements, including the map itself, can contain metadata inside the
            <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element. Metadata typically is applied to an element
          and its descendants.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><xmlelement>ux-window</xmlelement></dt>
        <dd>The <xmlelement>ux-window</xmlelement> element enables authors to define windowing
          information for the display of output topics that are appropriate to the delivery
          platform. Window management is important in user assistance and help system outputs, as
          well as for other hypertext and electronic delivery modes.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><xmlelement>topichead</xmlelement></dt>
        <dd>The <xmlelement>topichead</xmlelement> element provides a navigation title; it is a
          convenience element that is equivalent to a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element with
          a navigation title but no associated resource.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><xmlelement>anchor</xmlelement></dt>
        <dd><ph conkeyref="reuse-general/anchor_shortdesc"/></dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><xmlelement>navref</xmlelement></dt>
        <dd><ph conkeyref="reuse-general/navtitle_shortdesc"/></dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement></dt>
        <dd>Enables authors to define keys. This element is a convenience element; it is a
          specialization of <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> that sets the default value of the
            <xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt> attribute to "resource-only". Setting the
            <xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt> attribute to resource-only ensures that the resource
          referenced by the key definition is not directly included in the navigation that is
          defined by the map.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><xmlelement>mapref</xmlelement></dt>
        <dd>Enables authors to reference an entire DITA map, including hierarchy and relationship
          tables. This element is a convenience element; it is a specialization of
            <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> that sets the default value of the
            <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute to "ditamap". The <xmlelement>mapref</xmlelement>
          element represents a reference from a parent map to a subordinate map.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><xmlelement>anchorref</xmlelement></dt>
        <dd>Enables authors to define a map fragment that is pushed to the location defined by an
          anchor.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
  </conbody>
</concept>
