<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="ditamap-attributes" xml:lang="en-us"> 
  <title><ph>DITA map attributes</ph></title> 
  <shortdesc>DITA maps have unique attributes that are designed to control the
	 way that relationships are interpreted for different output purposes. In
	 addition, DITA maps share many metadata and linking attributes with DITA
	 topics. 
  </shortdesc>
	<prolog>
		<metadata>
			<keywords>
				<indexterm><xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt>
					attribute<indexterm>example</indexterm></indexterm>
				<indexterm>examples<indexterm>maps<indexterm><xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> and
								<xmlatt>linking</xmlatt> in relationship
							tables</indexterm><indexterm>relationship
							tables</indexterm><indexterm>use of <xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt>
							attribute</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
				<indexterm>maps<indexterm>attributes<indexterm>shared with topics</indexterm><indexterm>unique
							to
							maps</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>examples<indexterm>relationship
							tables</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
				<indexterm>relationship tables<indexterm>examples</indexterm></indexterm>
			</keywords>
		</metadata>
	</prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <section id="mostly-map">
			<p>DITA maps often encode structures that are specific to a particular medium or output, for
				example, Web pages or a PDF document. Attributes, such as
					<xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt>, are designed to help
				processors interpret the DITA map for each kind of output.</p>
			<draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="04 July 2019" audience="spec-editors">
				<p>The following paragraph seems off ...</p>
			</draft-comment>
			<!--IGNORE may-must-should word-->
			<p>Many of the following attributes are not available in DITA topics; individual topics,
				once separated from the high-level structures and dependencies associated with a
				particular kind of output, should be entirely reusable regardless of the intended
				output format.</p>
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt>
					</dt>
					<dd>The <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> attribute specifies how the children of a
							<xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element relate to their parent and to
						each other. This attribute, which is set on the parent element, typically is
						used by processors to determine how to generate navigation links in the
						rendered topics. For example, a <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> value of
						"sequence" indicates that children of the specifying
							<xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element represent an ordered sequence
						of topics; processors might add numbers to the list of child topics or
						generate next/previous links for online presentation. This attribute is
						available in topics on the <xmlelement>linklist</xmlelement> and
							<xmlelement>linkpool</xmlelement> elements, where it has the same
						behavior. Where the <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> attribute is available
						on elements that cannot directly contain elements, the behavior of the
						attribute is undefined. </dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>linking</xmlatt></dt>
					<dd>
						<p>By default, the relationships between the topics that are referenced in a
							map are reciprocal:</p>
						<ul>
							<li>Child topics link to parent topics and vice versa. </li>
							<li>Next and previous topics in a sequence link to each other. </li>
							<li>Topics in a family link to their sibling topics. </li>
							<li>Topics referenced in the table cells of the same row in a
								relationship table link to each other. A topic referenced within a
								table cell does not (by default) link to other topics referenced in
								the same table cell. </li>
						</ul>
						<p>This behavior can be modified by using the <xmlatt>linking</xmlatt> attribute, which
							enables an author or information architect to specify how a topic
							participates in a relationship. The following values are valid:</p>
						<dl>
							<dlentry>
								<dt><codeph>linking="none"</codeph>
								</dt>
								<dd>Specifies that the topic does not exist in the map for the
									purposes of calculating links. </dd>
							</dlentry>
							<dlentry>
								<dt><codeph>linking="sourceonly"</codeph>
								</dt>
								<dd>Specifies that the topic will link to its related topics but not
									vice versa. </dd>
							</dlentry>
							<dlentry>
								<dt><codeph>linking="targetonly"</codeph>
								</dt>
								<dd>Specifies that the related topics will link to it but not vice
									versa. </dd>
							</dlentry>
							<dlentry>
								<dt><codeph>linking="normal"</codeph>
								</dt>
								<dd>Default value. It specifies that linking will be reciprocal (the
									topic will link to related topics, and they will link back to
									it). </dd>
							</dlentry>
						</dl>
						<p>Authors also can create links directly in a topic by using the
								<xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>link</xmlelement>
							elements, but in most cases map-based linking is preferable, because
							links in topics create dependencies between topics that can hinder
							reuse. </p>
						<p>Note that while the relationships between the topics that are referenced
							in a map are reciprocal, the relationships merely <i>imply</i>
							reciprocal links in generated output that includes links. The rendered
							navigation links are a function of the presentation style that is
							determined by the processor. </p>
					</dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>toc</xmlatt></dt>
					<dd>Specifies whether topics are excluded from navigation output, such as a Web
						site map or an online table of contents. By default,
							<xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> hierarchies are included in navigation
						output; relationship tables are excluded. </dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>locktitle</xmlatt></dt>
					<dd>
						<p> If <xmlatt>locktitle</xmlatt> is set to "yes", the <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement>
							element is used if it is present. Otherwise, the
								<xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> element is ignored and the
							navigation title is retrieved from the referenced file. </p>
					</dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>search</xmlatt>
					</dt>
					<dd> Specifies whether the topic is included in search indexes. </dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt>
					</dt>
					<dd>Specifies that the processor generates an interim set of DITA topics that
						are used as the input for the final processing. This can produce the
						following output results: <ul>
							<li>Multi-topic files are transformed into smaller files, for example,
								individual HTML files for each DITA topic. </li>
							<li>Individual DITA topics are combined into a single file. </li>
						</ul><p>Specifying a value for the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute on a
								<xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element establishes chunking behavior
							that applies to the entire map, unless overridden by
								<xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attributes that are set on more specific
							elements in the DITA map. For a detailed description of the
								<xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute and its usage, see <xref
								href="chunking.dita"/>. </p></dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt>
					</dt>
					<dd>
						<p>In most situations, specifies whether a duplicate version of the topic is
							created when it is transformed. This duplicate version can be either
							literal or virtual. The value of the <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute
							specifies the uniform resource identifier (URI) by which the topic can
							be referenced by a <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute,
								<xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element, or
								<xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> element. <ph>The duplication is a
								convenience for output processors that use the URI of the topic to
								generate the base address of the output. The <xmlatt>keys</xmlatt>
								and <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attributes provide an alternative
								mechanism; they enable references to topics in specific-use
								contexts.</ph>
						</p>
						<p>The <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute also can be used to specify the
							name of a new chunk when topics are being chunked; it also can be used
							to determine the name of the stub topic that is generated from a
								<xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element that contains a title but
							does not specify a target. In both of those cases, no duplicate version
							of the topic is generated. </p>
						<p>For information on how the <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute can be used
							with the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute, see <xref
								href="chunking.dita"/>. </p>
						<!--<p><draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein" time="24 August 2009">Review
suggestion from Elliot Kimber:<p>"In general, copy-to is a convenience
for output processors that, by default, map topics to result components
one-to-one, using the input topic's URL as a base for the result component's
address (e.g., generating HTML pages from topics where the HTML page's
base filename is the same as the input topic's base filename). However,
the use of copy-to is not required simply to enable references to
topics in a specific use context. That can be done using keys and
keyref irrespective of how topics and result components are named
or addressed."</p><p>Do we want to add information about the copy-to
being handled more elegantly by keys and the @keyref attribute? Should
the @copy-to attribute be deprecated in favor of using keys? Should
this include more information about how and when the @copy-to attribute
is needed even now that we have keys and @keyref? See discussion at <xref
href="http://wiki.oasis-open.org/dita/ditaMaps" scope="external"></xref>.<draft-comment
author="Kristen James Eberlein" time="31 December 2009">Review #3
comment by Michael Priestley on 17 December 2009<p>"For @copy-to -
in response to Eliot's draft comment asking if we should deprecate
copy-to in favor of keyref - definitely not. I don't understand the
comment about usage-specific referencing - i.e. I don't understand
what scenario for copy-to keyref replaces - but it certainly leaves
all the normal scenarios for copy-to, which keyref does not affect
or replace."</p></draft-comment></p></draft-comment></p>-->
					</dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt>
					</dt>
					<dd>Specifies whether the topic or map referenced is processed normally or treated as a
						resource that is only included in order to resolve key or content
						references. <dl>
							<dlentry>
								<dt>processing-role="normal" </dt>
								<dd>The topic is a readable part of the information set. It is
									included in navigation and search results. This is the default
									value for the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element.</dd>
							</dlentry>
							<dlentry>
								<dt>processing-role="resource-only" </dt>
								<dd>The topic is used only as a resource for processing. It is not
									included in navigation or search results, nor is it rendered as
									a topic. This is the default value for the
										<xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement> element. </dd>
							</dlentry>
						</dl><p>If the <xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt> attribute is not specified
							locally, the value cascades from the closest element in the containment
							hierarchy. </p></dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry >
					<dt><xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt></dt>
					<dd>
						<p>Specifies whether the default rules for the cascading of metadata
							attributes in a DITA map apply. The following values are specified:</p>
						<dl conkeyref="reuse-general/cascade-values">
							<dlentry>
								<dt/>
								<dd/>
							</dlentry>
						</dl>
						<p>Processors also <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> define additional values for the
								<xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt> attribute.</p>
						<p>For more information, see <xref
								href="example-how-cascade-att-functions.dita" format="dita"/>.</p>
					</dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry >
					<dt><xmlatt>keys</xmlatt></dt>
					<dd>Specifies one or more key names.</dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry >
					<dt><xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt></dt>
					<dd>Defines a new scope for key definition and resolution, and gives the scope one or more
						names. For more information about key scopes, see <xref
							href="key-based-addressing.dita"/>.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
		</section> 
	 <section id="sharedatt"> 
		<p>Attributes in the list above are used exclusively or primarily in maps, but many important map
				attributes are shared with elements in topics. DITA maps also use many of the
				following attributes that are used with linking elements in DITA topics, such as
					<xmlelement>link</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement>:<ul
					id="ul_8EC90A51600A4EA388FCB3BCF0490924">
					<li id="li_5893ECBE9D1943CA8F67AFAF1A33AACA"><xmlatt>format</xmlatt></li>
					<li id="li_324682CF250345F7B2DDC8692BC00C81"><xmlatt>href</xmlatt></li>
					<li id="li_178E6EB1985D464A867DDB89066927F5"><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></li>
					<li id="li_393B3EADBBBF45029DD13F74FCB01383"><xmlatt>scope</xmlatt>
					</li>
					<li id="li_C214A132BF374DD681F79EA9C91DFFF2"><xmlatt>type</xmlatt>
					</li>
					<!--Removing @query since it is deprecated, no need to highlight it here-->
					<!--<li id="li_C62671077C5E4A759FBD6A6EAB529D68"><xmlatt>query</xmlatt> </li>-->
				</ul></p>
			<p>The following metadata and reuse attributes are used by both DITA maps and DITA
				topics: <ul>
					<li><xmlatt>rev</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>status</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>importance</xmlatt></li>
					<li><xmlatt>dir</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>translate</xmlatt>
					</li>
					<li><xmlatt>id</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt>,
							<xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>conaction</xmlatt>
					</li>
					<li><ph conkeyref="reuse-general/propsAndSpecializations"/></li>
					<li><xmlatt>search</xmlatt>
					</li>
				</ul></p> 
		<p>When new attributes are specialized from
				<xmlatt>props</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>base</xmlatt> as a domain, they can be
				incorporated into both map and topic structural types. </p> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
