<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="dita-linking">
  <title>DITA linking</title>
  <shortdesc>DITA supports many different linking elements,
    but they all use the same set of attributes to describe
    relationships between content.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <draft-comment author="robander" time="22 feb 2022" audience="spec-editors">Thought about this
      topic … format/scope/type and to some extent href all apply whether the linking is done with
      URI-based addressing, or keys. But the organization makes it seem like they are primarily for
      URI, and then an add-on para at the bottom says they also come from keys.<p>I'd suggest that
        we make URI-based and indirect into child topics, except that we have a whole giant map's
        worth of content that follows. We also have a topic that follows this one that describes
        URI-based addressing. </p><p>One idea … we remove most of the content that follows and
        replace it with more general conceptual info. "Links are described through a few attributes,
        each of which can be specified directly on the link or indirectly via key. The linking
        attributes are format, href, scope, and type." Then remove all the content that follows,
        leaving the 4 sub-topics that have moved here from the langref section.</p></draft-comment>
    <section id="uri">
      <title>URI-based addressing</title>
      <p>URI-based links are described by the following attributes.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>href</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>The <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute specifies the URI of the resource that is being
            addressed.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>format</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>The <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute identifies the format of the resource being
            addressed. For example, references to DITA topics are identified with
              <codeph>format="dita"</codeph>, whereas references to DITA maps use
              <codeph>format="ditamap"</codeph>. References to other types of content use other
            values for this attribute.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>scope</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>The <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> attribute describes the closeness of the relationship
            between the current document and the target resource. Resources in the same information
            unit are considered <keyword>local</keyword>; resources in the same system as the
            referencing content but not part of the same information unit are considered
              <keyword>peer</keyword>; and resources outside the system, such as Web pages, are
            considered <keyword>external</keyword>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>type</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>The <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute is used on cross-references to describe the target
            of the reference. Most commonly, the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute names the element
            type being referenced when <codeph>format="dita"</codeph>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <p>These four attributes act as a unit, describing whatever link is established by the element
        that carries them.</p>
      <draft-comment author="robander" time="22 feb 2022" audience="spec-editors">Really not a fan
        of the next paragraph. This behavior should be described in the child topics, so maybe we
        could just delete this paragraph that someone duplicates that info.</draft-comment>
      <p>The <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> attributes are assigned default
        values based on the URI that is specified in the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute. Thus they
        rarely need to be explicitly specified in most cases. However, they can be useful in many
        non-traditional linking scenarios or environments.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="keys">
      <title>Indirect key-based addressing</title>
      <p>DITA also supports indirect links and cross-references in which a DITA map assigns unique
        names, or keys, to the resources being referenced by the publication. This is done using
          <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements that specify the <xmlatt>keys</xmlatt>
        attribute. Using the <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute, individual links, cross-references,
        and images then reference resources by their keys instead of their URIs. Links defined
        using <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> thus allow context-specific linking behavior. That is, the
        links in a topic or map might resolve to one set of resources in one context, and a
        completely different set of resources in another, without the need for any modifications to
        the link markup.</p>
      <p>When links are defined using <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt>, values for the four linking
        attributes described above are typically all specified (or given default values) on the key
        defining element.</p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
