<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="document-type-shells-equivalence">
  <title>Equivalence of document-type shells</title>
  <shortdesc>Two distinct DITA document types that are taken from different tools or environments
    might be functionally equivalent.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>document-type shells<indexterm>equivalence</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>A DITA document type is defined by the following:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>The set of vocabulary and <ph rev="2.0">element-configuration modules (constraint and
          expansion)</ph> that are integrated by the document type shell </li>
      <li>The values of the <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attributes of all the elements in the
        document</li>
      <li>Rules for topic nesting</li>
    </ul>
    <p>Two document-type shells define the same DITA document type if they integrate identical
      vocabulary modules, <ph rev="2.0">element-configuration modules (constraint and
        expansion)</ph>, and rules for topic nesting. For example, a document type shell that is an
      unmodified copy of the OASIS-provided document-type shell for topic defines the same DITA
      document type as the original document-type shell. However, the new document-type shell has
      the following differences:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>It is a distinct file that is stored in a different location.</li>
      <li>It has a distinct system identifier.</li>
      <li>If it has a public identifier, the public identifier is unique.</li>
    </ul>
    <note>The public or system identifier that is associated with a given document-type shell is not
      necessarily distinguishing. Two different people or groups might use the same modules and
      constraints to assemble equivalent document type shells, while giving them different names or
      public identifiers. </note>
  </conbody>
</concept>
