<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 2.x Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="dtd_coding_requirements_for_element_configuration_modules">
    <title>DTD: Coding requirements for element-configuration modules</title>
    <shortdesc>Element-configuration modules (constraint and expansion) have specific coding
        requirements.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <section>
            <title>The <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.attributes</codeph> parameter
                entity</title>
            <p>When the attribute set for an element is constrained or expanded, there is a
                declaration of the <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.attributes</codeph> parameter
                entity that defines the modified attributes.</p>
            <example>
                <p>The following list provides examples for both constraint and expansion
                    modules:</p>
                <dl>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt>Constraint module</dt>
                        <dd>
                            <p>The following parameter entity defines a constrained set of
                                attributes for the <xmlelement>note</xmlelement> element that
                                removes most of the values defined for <xmlatt>type</xmlatt>; it
                                also removes <xmlatt>othertype</xmlatt>:</p>
                            <codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % note.attributes  
       "type  (attention | caution | note ) #IMPLIED
        %univ-atts;"&gt;</codeblock>
                            <p>The following parameter entity restricts the highlighting domain to
                                    <xmlelement>b</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>i</xmlelement>:</p>
                            <codeblock>
&lt;!ENTITY % HighlightingDomain-c-ph     "b | i"  ></codeblock>
                        </dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt>Expansion module</dt>
                        <dd>
                            <p>The following parameter entity defines a new attribute intended for
                                use with various table elements:</p>
                            <codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % cellPurposeAtt-d-attribute<b>-expansion</b>
  "cell-purpose  (sale | out-of-stock | new | last-chance | inherit | none)  #IMPLIED"
&gt;</codeblock>
                        </dd>
                    </dlentry>
                </dl>
            </example>
            <p>For expansion modules, note the following considerations.The
            <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.attributes</codeph>
        parameter entity can be defined in an attribute specialization
        module, or it can be defined directly in the expansion module.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>The <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.content</codeph> parameter entity</title>
            <p>When the content model for an element is constrained or expanded, there is a
                declaration of the <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.content</codeph> parameter
                entity that defines the modified content model.</p>
            <example>
                <p>The following list provides examples for both constraint and expansion
                    modules:</p>
                <dl>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt>Constraint module</dt>
                        <dd>
                            <p>The following parameter entity defines a more restricted content
                                model for <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement>, in which the
                                    <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element is required.</p>
                            <codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % topic.content 

  "((%title;), 
    (%titlealts;)?, 
    (%shortdesc;), 
    (%prolog;)?, 
    (%body;)?, 
    (%topic-info-types;)*)"
></codeblock>
              <p>Note that replacing a base element with domain extensions
                is a form of constraint that can be accomplished directly
                in the document-type shell. No constraint module is
                required.</p>
              <p otherprops="examples">In the following example, the
                  <xmlelement>pre</xmlelement> base type is removed from
                the entity declaration, effectively allowing only
                specializations of <xmlelement>pre</xmlelement> but not
                  <xmlelement>pre</xmlelement> itself.<codeblock otherprops="examples"><![CDATA[<!ENTITY % pre
    "%pr-d-pre; | 
     %sw-d-pre; | 
     %ui-d-pre;">]]></codeblock></p>
                        </dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt>Expansion module</dt>
                        <dd>
                            <p>The redefinition of the content model references the parameter entity
                                that was defined in the element specialization module.</p>
                            <p>The following code sample shows the entity declaration file for an
                                element specialization module that defines a
                                    <xmlelement>section-shortdesc</xmlelement> element, which is
                                intended to be added to the content model of
                                    <xmlelement>section</xmlelement>:</p>
                            <codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY sectionShortdesc-d-p-expansion "section-shortdesc">

&lt;!ENTITY % section-shortdesc "section-shortdesc"></codeblock>
                            <p>When the content model for <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> is
                                redefined in the expansion module, it references the parameter
                                entity defined in the entities file for the element
                                specialization:</p>
                            <codeblock>
&lt;!ENTITY % section.content
              "(#PCDATA |
               %dl; |
               %div; |
               %fig; |
               %image; |
               %note; |
               %ol; |
               %p; |
               %simpletable; |
               %ul; |
               %title; |
               %draft-comment;<b>|
               %sectionShortdesc-d-p-expansion;</b>)*"
>
</codeblock>
                            <p>Note that this expansion module also constrains the content model of
                                    <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> to only include certain block
                                elements.</p>
                        </dd>
                    </dlentry>
                </dl>
            </example>
      <!--<draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="18 May 2021"><p>If we go with this approach,  handling coding requirements for constraint and expansion in a single topic, we need to find a home for the following content that orginally was in the coding requirements for constraints topic:</p></draft-comment>-->
        </section>
    <!--<section id="remove-base-element"><title>Constraining to replace a base element with domain extensions</title><p>When element domains are used to extend a base element, those extensions can be used to replace the base element. This form of constraint is done inside the document-type shell.</p><p>Within a document-type shell, <xref href="dtd-coding-doctype-shell.dita#shell-dtd-coding-reqs/domain-extensions">domain extensions</xref> are implemented by declaring an entity for a base element. The value of the entity can omit any base element types from which the other element types that are listed are specialized.</p><p otherprops="examples">In the following example, the <xmlelement>pre</xmlelement> base type is removed from the entity declaration, effectively allowing only specializations of <xmlelement>pre</xmlelement> but not <xmlelement>pre</xmlelement> itself.<codeblock otherprops="examples"><![CDATA[<!ENTITY % pre
    "%pr-d-pre; | 
     %sw-d-pre; | 
     %ui-d-pre;">]]></codeblock></p></section>-->
    </conbody>
</concept>
