<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 2.x Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="dtd_coding_requirements_expansion_modules" rev="2.0">
    <title>DTD: Coding requirements for expansion modules</title>
    <shortdesc>An expansion module defines the expanded configuration for a map or topic element
        type.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>coding
                        requirements<indexterm>DTD<indexterm>expansion</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>DTD<indexterm>coding requirements<indexterm>expansion
                        modules</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>expansion modules<indexterm>DTD<indexterm>coding
                        requirements</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>expansion modules<indexterm>DTD<indexterm>naming conventions for
                            parameter entities</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>naming conventions<indexterm>expansion modules<indexterm>naming
                            conventions for parameter entities</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <section id="structural">
            <title>Expansion modules</title>
            <p>Expansion modules have the following coding requirements:</p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>The <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.attributes</codeph> parameter
                        entity</dt>
                    <dd>
                        <p>The <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.attributes</codeph> parameter
                            entity declares the expanded attributes.</p>
                        <p>This parameter entity can be defined in an attribute specialization
                            module, or it can be defined directly in the expansion module.</p>
                        <div otherprops="examples">
                            <p>For example, the following parameter entity defines a new attribute
                                intended for use with various table elements:</p>
                            <codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % cellPurposeAtt-d-attribute-expansion
  "cell-purpose  (sale | out-of-stock | new | last-chance | inherit | none)  #IMPLIED"
&gt;</codeblock>
                        </div>
                        <p>Note that the name of the parameter entity ends with
                                <codeph>-expansion</codeph>; this indicates that this is an
                            expansion attribute and should not be included in the
                                <parameterentity>base-attribute-extensions</parameterentity> entity
                            in the document-type shell.</p>
                        <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="08 April 2021">
                            <p>Should we call this
                                    <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.attributes</codeph> parameter
                                entity? Or would
                                    <codeph><varname>Domain</varname>.attributes</codeph> parameter
                                entity be more appropriate?</p>
                        </draft-comment>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>The <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.content</codeph> parameter
                        entity</dt>
                    <dd>
                        <p>The <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.content</codeph> parameter entity
                            declares the expanded content model for the element. This redefinition
                            of the content model references the parameter entity that was defined in
                            the element specialization module.</p>
                        <div otherprops="examples">
                            <p>For example, the following code sample shows the entity declaration
                                file for an element specialization module that defines a
                                    <xmlelement>section-shortdesc</xmlelement> element, which is
                                intended to be added to the content model of
                                    <xmlelement>section</xmlelement>:</p>
                            <codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY sectionShortdesc-d-p-expansion "section-shortdesc">

&lt;!ENTITY % section-shortdesc "section-shortdesc"></codeblock>
                            <p>When the content model for <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> is
                                redefined in the expansion module, it references the parameter
                                entity defined in the entities file for the element
                                specialization:</p>
                            <codeblock>
&lt;!ENTITY % section.content
              "(#PCDATA |
               %dl; |
               %div; |
               %fig; |
               %image; |
               %note; |
               %ol; |
               %p; |
               %simpletable; |
               %ul; |
               %sectiondiv; |
               %title; |
               %draft-comment;<b>|
               %sectionShortdesc-d-p-expansion;</b>)*"
>
</codeblock>
                            <p>Note that this expansion module also constrains the content model of
                                    <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> to only include certain block
                                elements.</p>
                        </div>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
