<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="constraintsDomainDesignPattern-dtd" xml:lang="en-us" >
  <title>DTD: Coding requirements for constraint modules</title>
  <shortdesc>A structural constraint module defines the constraints for a map or topic element type.
    A domain constraint module defines the constraints for an element or attribute
    domain.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>coding
          requirements<indexterm>DTD<indexterm>constraints</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>constraints<indexterm>DTD<indexterm>coding
              requirements</indexterm><indexterm>integrating into document type
            shells</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>domain constraint modules<indexterm>DTD<indexterm>coding
            requirements</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>file names<indexterm>DTD<indexterm>domain constraint
              modules</indexterm><indexterm>structural constraint
          modules</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>structural constraint modules<indexterm>DTD<indexterm>coding
              requirements</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <section id="structural">
      <title>Structural constraint modules</title>
      <p>Structural constraint modules have the following requirements:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> contribution entity name and value</dt>
          <dd>The constraint module needs to contain a declaration for a text entity with the name
                <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>-constraints</codeph>, where
              <varname>tagname</varname> is the name of the element type to which the constraints
            apply. The value of the text entity is the <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> attribute
            contribution for the module; see <xref href="specialization-domains-attribute.dita"/>
            for details on how to construct this value. <p otherprops="examples">For example, the
              following text entity provides the declaration for the strict task constraint that is
              shipped with the DITA
              standard.<codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY taskbody-constraints     
  "(topic task strictTaskbody-c)"
></codeblock></p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry >
          <dt>The <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.attributes</codeph> parameter entity</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>When the attribute set for an element is constrained, there <ph 
                >must</ph> be a declaration of the
                <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.attributes</codeph> parameter entity that defines
              the constrained attributes.</p>
            <p otherprops="examples">For example, the following parameter
              entity defines a constrained set of attributes for the <xmlelement>note</xmlelement>
              element that removes most of the values defined for <xmlatt>type</xmlatt>, and also
              removes <xmlatt>spectitle</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>othertype</xmlatt>:</p>
            <codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % note.attributes  
       "type  (attention | caution | note ) #IMPLIED
        %univ-atts;"&gt;</codeblock>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>The <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.content</codeph> parameter entity</dt>
          <dd>
            <p><ph >When the content model for an element is constrained,</ph>
              there <ph >must</ph> be a declaration of the
                  <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.content</codeph> parameter entity that defines
              the constrained content model.</p>
            <p otherprops="examples">For example, the following parameter entity defines a more
              restricted content model for <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement>, in which the
                <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element is
              required.<codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % topic.content 

  "((%title;), 
    (%titlealts;)?, 
    (%shortdesc;), 
    (%prolog;)?, 
    (%body;)?, 
    (%topic-info-types;)*)"
></codeblock></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section id="domain">
      <title>Domain constraint modules</title>
      <p>Domain constraint modules have the following requirements:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> contribution entity name and value</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>The constraint module needs to contain a declaration for a text entity with the name
                  <codeph><varname>domain</varname>Domain-constraints</codeph>, where <ph
                conkeyref="reuse-general/domain-variable-ph"/> The value of
              the text entity is the <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> attribute contribution for the module;
              see <xref href="specialization-domains-attribute.dita"/> for details on how to
              construct this value. </p>
            <p otherprops="examples" >For example, the following text entity provides
              the declaration for a constraint module that restricts the highlighting domain:</p>
            <codeblock >&lt;!ENTITY HighlightingDomain-constraints     
  "(topic hi-d basic-HighlightingDomain-c)"
></codeblock>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Parameter entity</dt>
          <dd>
            <p><ph >When the set of extension elements are restricted, there
                must</ph> be a parameter entity that defines the constrained content model.</p>
            <p otherprops="examples" >For example, the following
              parameter entity restricts the highlighting domain to <xmlelement>b</xmlelement> and
                <xmlelement>i</xmlelement>:</p>
            <codeblock >
&lt;!ENTITY % HighlightingDomain-c-ph     "b | i"  ></codeblock>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section id="remove-base-element">
      <title>Constraining to replace a base element with domain extensions</title>
      <p>When element domains are used to extend a base element, those extensions can be used to
        replace the base element. This form of constraint is done inside the document-type
        shell.</p>
      <p>Within a document-type shell, <xref
          href="dtd-coding-doctype-shell.dita#shell-dtd-coding-reqs/domain-extensions">domain
          extensions</xref> are implemented by declaring an entity for a base element. The value of
        the entity can omit any base element types from which the other element types that are
        listed are specialized. Omitting a base type constitutes a form of constraint; as with any
        other constraint, this form of constraint must contribute a token to the
          <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> attribute. That token can be defined in a module file (which does
        not define any other entities or values), or the token can be placed directly into the
        document-type shell definition for the <codeph>included-domains</codeph> entity.</p>
      <p otherprops="examples">In the following example, the <xmlelement>pre</xmlelement> base type
        is removed from the entity declaration, effectively allowing only specializations of
          <xmlelement>pre</xmlelement> but not <xmlelement>pre</xmlelement> itself. This omission
        would require the use of a <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> contribution token within the
          <codeph>included-domains</codeph> entity.<codeblock otherprops="examples"><![CDATA[<!ENTITY % pre
    "%pr-d-pre; | 
     %sw-d-pre; | 
     %ui-d-pre;">]]></codeblock></p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>

