<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="shell-dtd-coding-reqs" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title>DTD: Coding requirements for document-type shells</title>
    <shortdesc>A DTD-based document-type shell is organized into sections; each section contains
        entity declarations that follow specific coding rules.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>The DTD-based approach to configuration, specialization, and constraints relies heavily
            upon parameter entities. Several of the parameter entities that are declared in document
            type shells contain references to other parameter entities. Because parameter entities
            must be declared before they are used, the order of the sections in a DTD-based
            document-type shell is significant.</p>
        <p>A DTD-based document-type shell contains the following sections:</p>
        <ol>
            <li>
                <xref href="#shell-dtd-coding-reqs/topic-map-entity-declarations" format="dita"/>
            </li>
            <li>
                <xref href="#shell-dtd-coding-reqs/domain-constraint-integration" format="dita"
                /></li>
            <li><xref href="#shell-dtd-coding-reqs/domain-entity-declarations" format="dita"/>
            </li>
            <li>
                <xref href="#shell-dtd-coding-reqs/domain-attributes-declarations" format="dita"/>
            </li>
            <li>
                <xref href="#shell-dtd-coding-reqs/domain-extensions" format="dita"/>
            </li>
            <li>
                <xref href="#shell-dtd-coding-reqs/domain-attribute-extensions" format="dita"/>
            </li>
            <li>
                <xref href="#shell-dtd-coding-reqs/topic-nesting-overrides" format="dita"/>
            </li>
            <li>
                <xref href="#shell-dtd-coding-reqs/domains-attribute-override" format="dita"/>
            </li>
            <li>
                <xref href="#shell-dtd-coding-reqs/content-constraint-integration" format="dita"/>
            </li>
            <li>
                <xref href="#shell-dtd-coding-reqs/topic-map-element-integration" format="dita"/>
            </li>
            <li>
                <xref href="#shell-dtd-coding-reqs/domain-element-integration" format="dita"/>
            </li>
        </ol>
        <!--<p>Shells <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">SHOULD</term> have an initial set of comments that describe the shell and indicate the public identifiers, URNs, or absolute URLs by which the shell should be referenced in DOCTYPE declarations. </p>-->
        <p>Each of the sections in a DTD-based document-type shell follows a pattern. These patterns
            help ensure that the shell follows XML parsing rules for DTDs; they also establish a
            modular design that simplifies creation of new document-type shells. By convention, an
                <filepath>.ent</filepath> file extension is used to indicate files that define only
            parameter entities, while a <filepath>.mod</filepath> file extension is used to indicate
            files that define elements or constraints.</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry id="topic-map-entity-declarations">
                <dt> Topic [or map] entity declarations </dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>This section declares and references an external parameter entity for each of
                        the following: </p>
                    <ul>
                        <li>The top-level topic or map type that the document-type shell
                            configures</li>
                        <li>Any additional structural modules that are used by the document type
                            shell</li>
                    </ul>
                    <p>Each parameter entity (<filepath>.ent</filepath>) file contributes a domain
                        token for structural topics or maps. The parameter entity is named
                                <codeph><varname>type-name</varname>-dec</codeph>. </p>
                    <p otherprops="examples">For example, a document-type shell that integrates the
                            <xmlelement>concept</xmlelement> specialization would
                        include:<codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % concept-dec     
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//ENTITIES DITA 1.3 Concept//EN" 
         "concept.ent"
>%concept-dec;</codeblock></p>
                    <!--<p rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13121">This section <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MUST</term> declare and reference as an external parameter entity the <filepath>.ent</filepath> file for any additional structural specialization modules on which the primary specialization depends; the entity is named <codeph>%<i>typename</i>-dec</codeph>. For example, if a troubleshooting specialization is specialized from topic but includes elements from task, it will need to include the <filepath>.ent</filepath> file for task:</p><codeblock rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13121">&lt;!ENTITY % task-dec     
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//ENTITIES DITA 1.3 Task//EN" 
         "task.ent"
>%task-dec;</codeblock>-->
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="domain-constraint-integration">
                <dt>Domain constraint integration</dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>For each domain constraint module that is integrated into the document type
                        shell, this section declares a parameter entity and references the
                        constraint module file where the constraint is defined. The parameter entity
                        is named <codeph><varname>descriptorDomainName</varname>-c-dec</codeph>.</p>
                    <p otherprops="examples">In the following example, the entity file for a
                        constraint module that reduces the highlighting domain to a subset is
                        included in a document type
                        shell:<codeblock>&lt;!-- ============================================================= -->
&lt;!--                    DOMAIN CONSTRAINT INTEGRATION              -->
&lt;!-- ============================================================= -->

&lt;!ENTITY % HighlightingDomain-c-dec  
  PUBLIC "-//ACME//ENTITIES DITA Highlighting Domain Constraint//EN" 
  "acme-HighlightingDomainConstraint.mod"
>%basic-HighlightingDomain-c-dec;</codeblock></p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="domain-entity-declarations">
                <dt> Domain entity declarations </dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>For each element domain that is integrated into the document-type shell, this
                        section declares a parameter entity and references the external entities
                        file where the element domain is defined. The parameter entity is named
                                <codeph><varname>shortDomainName</varname>-dec</codeph>. </p>
                    <p otherprops="examples">In the following example, the entity file for the
                        highlighting domain is included in a document-type shell:<codeblock><![CDATA[<!ENTITY % hi-d-dec PUBLIC
    "-//OASIS//ENTITIES DITA Highlight Domain//EN" 
    "highlightDomain.ent"
>%hi-d-dec;]]></codeblock></p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="domain-attributes-declarations">
                <dt> Domain attributes declarations </dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>For each attribute domain that is integrated into the document-type shell,
                        this section declares a parameter entity and references the external
                        entities file where the attribute domain is defined. The parameter entity is
                        named <codeph><varname>domainName</varname>-dec</codeph>.</p>
                    <p otherprops="examples">In the following example, the entity file for the
                            <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt> attribute domain is included in a
                        document-type shell:<codeblock><![CDATA[<!ENTITY % deliveryTargetAtt-d-dec
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//ENTITIES DITA 1.3 Delivery Target Attribute Domain//EN"
         "deliveryTargetAttDomain.ent"
>%deliveryTargetAtt-d-dec;]]></codeblock></p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="domain-extensions">
                <dt> Domain extensions </dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>For each element that is extended by one or more domains, this section
                        redefines the parameter entity for the element. These entities are used by
                        later modules to define content models; redefining the entity adds domain
                        specializations wherever the base element is allowed.</p>
                    <!--<draft-comment author="robander" time="10 February 2015"><p>Original text: "The new definition is a disjunctive list of alternatives comprising the literal name of the element followed by the element extension entity from each domain that is providing specializations." IMHO technically innacurate, as it's only followed by an extension entity from each domain <i>that specializes this element</i>. I've made that change.</p><p>But about the word "disjunctive": adjective 1. lacking connection."the novel's disjunctive detail". 2. (of a conjunction) expressing a choice between two mutually exclusive possibilities, for example <i>or</i> in <i>she asked if he was going or staying</i>. </p><p>Is that correct here? I had to look up the word because I never took Latin.</p></draft-comment>-->
                    <p otherprops="examples">In the following example, the entity for the
                            <xmlelement>pre</xmlelement> element is redefined to add specializations
                        from the programming, software, and user interface domains:<codeblock><![CDATA[<!ENTITY % pre
    "pre        | 
     %pr-d-pre; | 
     %sw-d-pre; | 
     %ui-d-pre;">]]></codeblock></p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="domain-attribute-extensions">
                <dt> Domain attribute extensions </dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>For each attribute domain that is integrated into the document-type shell,
                        this section redefines the parameter entities for the attribute. It adds an
                        extension to the parameter entity for the relevant attribute.</p>
                    <!--<p>The <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>base</xmlatt> attributes are used together with entities that allow for extension. By default, these entities have a null value as there are no default specialized attributes. </p>-->
                    <p otherprops="examples">In the following example, the <xmlatt>props</xmlatt>
                        attribute is specialized to create the <xmlatt>new</xmlatt> and
                            <xmlatt>othernew</xmlatt> attributes, while the <xmlatt>base</xmlatt>
                        attribute is specialized to create <xmlatt>newfrombase</xmlatt> and
                            <xmlatt>othernewfrombase</xmlatt>
                        attributes:<codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % props-attribute-extensions
        "%newAtt-d-attribute; 
         %othernewAtt-d-attribute;"&gt;
&lt;!ENTITY % base-attribute-extensions
        "%newfrombaseAtt-d-attribute; 
         %othernewfrombaseAtt-d-attribute;"&gt;
</codeblock></p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="topic-nesting-overrides">
                <dt> Topic nesting override </dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>For each topic type that is integrated into the document-type shell, this
                        section specifies whether and how subtopics nest by redefining the
                                <codeph><varname>topictype</varname>-info-types</codeph> entity. The
                        definition is usually an OR list of the topic types that can be nested in
                        the parent topic type. Use the literal root-element name, not the
                        corresponding parameter entity. Topic nesting can be disallowed completely
                        by specifying the <xmlelement>no-topic-nesting</xmlelement> element.</p>
                    <p otherprops="examples">In the following example, the parameter entity
                        specifies that <xmlelement>concept</xmlelement> can nest any number of
                            <xmlelement>concept</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>myTopicType</xmlelement>
                        topics, in any
                        order:<codeblock><![CDATA[<!ENTITY % concept-info-types "concept | myTopicType">]]></codeblock></p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="domains-attribute-override">
                <dt> Domains attribute override </dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>This section sets the effective value of the <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt>
                        attribute for the top-level document type that is configured by the document
                        type shell. It redefines the <codeph>included-domains</codeph> entity to
                        include the text entity for each domain, constraint, and structural
                        specialization that is either included or reused in the document type
                        shell.</p>
                    <p  otherprops="examples">In the following example,
                        entities are included for both the troubleshooting specialization and the
                        task specialization on which the troubleshooting specialization depends; for
                        the highlighting and utilities element domains; for the
                            <codeph>newAtt-d</codeph> attribute domain, and for the
                            <codeph>noBasePre-c</codeph> constraint module:<codeblock ><![CDATA[<!ENTITY included-domains
    "&troubleshooting-att;
     &task-att;
     &hi-d-att; 
     &ut-d-att; 
     &newAtt-d-att;
     &noBasePre-c-ph;
   "
>]]></codeblock></p>
                    <note>Although parameter entities (entities that begin with "%") must be defined
                        before they are referenced, text entities (entities that begin with "&amp;")
                        can be referenced before they are defined. This allows the
                            <codeph>included-domains</codeph>
                        <!--parameter -->entity to include the constraint entity, which is not
                        defined until the constraint module is referenced later in the document type
                        shell.</note>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="content-constraint-integration">
                <dt> Content constraint integration </dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>For each constraint module that is integrated into the document-type shell,
                        this section declares and references the external module file where the
                        constraint is defined. The parameter entity is named
                                <codeph><varname>constraintName</varname>-c-def</codeph>.</p>
                    <p otherprops="examples">In the following example, the constraint module that
                        constrains the content model for the <xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement>
                        element is integrated into the document-type shell for strict
                        task:<codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % strictTaskbody-c-def  
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//ELEMENTS DITA 1.3 Strict Taskbody Constraint//EN" 
  "strictTaskbodyConstraint.mod"
>%strictTaskbody-c-def;</codeblock></p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="topic-map-element-integration">
                <dt> Topic [or map] element integration </dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>For each structural module that is integrated into the document-type shell,
                        this section declares a parameter entity and references the external module
                        file where the structural module is defined. The parameter entity is named
                                <codeph><varname>structuralType</varname>-type</codeph>. The modules
                        must be included in ancestry order, so that the parameter entities that are
                        used in an ancestor module are available for use in specializations. When a
                        structural module depends on elements from a vocabulary module that is not
                        part of its ancestry, the module upon which the structural module has a
                        dependency (and any ancestor modules not already included) should be
                        included before the module with a dependency.</p>
                    <!--<p rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13121">Likewise, when a structural module depends on elements from another module that is not part of its ancestry, then the module it depends on should be included before the module that depends on it, along with any ancestor modules not already included. For example, If a specialization called cppProgrammingTask specialized from task and needed to include some elements from cppAPIRef, then it would include the modules for topic, task, cppAPIRef, and cppProgrammingTask in that order.</p>-->
                    <p otherprops="examples">The following example declares and references the
                        structural modules that are integrated into the document-type shell for
                        troubleshooting:<codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % topic-type
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//ELEMENTS DITA 1.3 Topic//EN"
         "../../base/dtd/topic.mod"
>%topic-type;

&lt;!ENTITY % task-type
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//ELEMENTS DITA 1.3 Task//EN"
         "task.mod"
>%task-type;

&lt;!ENTITY % troubleshooting-type
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//ELEMENTS DITA 1.3 Troubleshooting//EN"
         "troubleshooting.mod"
>%troubleshooting-type;</codeblock></p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="domain-element-integration">
                <dt> Domain element integration </dt>
                <!--<dd>This section defines content models and attribute sets for specialized domain elements. <draft-comment author="robander" time="10 February 2015">Need to think through this: in general, there is no requirement to have "highlight domain" module come after "task" module, though we require it by setting up these sections. I think if my APIRef doc depended on the software domain, I would either need to embed the softwareDomain.mod first (fine from XML perspective) or I would need to redeclare the %apiname; type parameter entities that I use.</draft-comment></dd>-->
                <dd>
                    <p>For each element domain that is integrated into the document-type shell, this
                        section declares a parameter entity and references the external module file
                        where the element domain is defined. The parameter entity is named
                                <codeph><varname>domainName</varname>-def</codeph>.</p>
                    <p>For example, the following code declares and references the parameter entity
                        used for the highlighting domain:<codeblock><![CDATA[<!ENTITY % hi-d-def PUBLIC
    "-//OASIS//ELEMENTS DITA Highlight Domain//EN" 
    "highlightDomain.mod"
>%hi-d-def;]]></codeblock></p>
                    <note>If a structural module depends on a domain, the domain module should be
                        included before the structural module. This erases the boundary between the
                        final two sections, but it is necessary to ensure that modules are embedded
                        after their dependencies. Technically, the only solid requirement is that
                        both domain and structural modules be declared after all other modules that
                        they specialize from or depend on.</note>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
    </conbody>
</concept>
