<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="cascadeelementsmaptomap">
    <title>Example: How <ph rev="review-k">metadata</ph> elements cascade
    from one map to another</title>
    <shortdesc>In this scenario, <ph rev="review-k">a metadata element that
      is located in a map reference cascades to the topics that are
      referenced in</ph> a nested map.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>cascading metadata<indexterm>example<indexterm>cascading elements between
                            maps</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>examples<indexterm><indexterm>cascading metadata<indexterm>cascading
                                elements between
                    maps</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>Assume the following references in
      <filepath>test.ditamap</filepath>:<codeblock>&lt;map>
  &lt;topicref href="a.ditamap" format="ditamap" toc="no"/>
  &lt;mapref href="b.ditamap" audience="developer"/>
  &lt;mapref href="c.ditamap#branch2" platform="myPlatform"/>
  <ph rev="2.0">&lt;mapref href="d.ditamap" subjectrefs="puzzles"/></ph>
&lt;/map></codeblock></p>
    <ul>
      <li>The map <filepath>a.ditamap</filepath> is treated as if
          <codeph>toc="no"</codeph> is specified on the root
          <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element. This means that the topics
        that are referenced by <filepath>a.ditamap</filepath> do not appear
        in the navigation generated by <filepath>test.ditamap</filepath>,
        except for branches within the map that explicitly set
          <codeph>toc="yes"</codeph>.</li>
      <li>The map <filepath>b.ditamap</filepath> is treated as if
          <codeph>audience="developer"</codeph> is set on the root
          <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element. If the
          <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt> attribute is already set on the root
          <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element within
          <filepath>b.ditamap</filepath>, the value
          <keyword>developer</keyword> is added to any existing
        values.</li>
      <li>The element with <codeph>id="branch2"</codeph> within the map
          <filepath>c.ditamap</filepath> is treated as if
          <codeph>platform="myPlatform"</codeph> is specified on that
        element. If the <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt> attribute is already
        specified on the element with <codeph>id="branch"</codeph>, the
          value<keyword>myPlatform</keyword> is added to existing
        values.</li>
      <li rev="2.0">The map <filepath>d.ditamap</filepath> is treated as if
          <codeph>subjectrefs="puzzles"</codeph> is set on the root
          <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element. If the
          <xmlatt>subjectrefs</xmlatt> attribute is already set on the root
          <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element within
          <filepath>d.ditamap</filepath>, the value
          <keyword>puzzles</keyword> is added to any existing values.</li>
    </ul>
  </conbody>
</concept>
