<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept_gtj_df1_mp">
 <title>Example: Link modification or removal</title>
 <shortdesc>This scenario outlines how different authors can <ph >effectively</ph>
    remove or modify a <xmlelement>link</xmlelement> element in a shared topic.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>A company wants to use a shared topic for information about customer support. For most
   products, the shared topic should include a link to a topic about extended warranties. But a
   small number of products do not offer extended warranties.</p>
  <ol>
   <li>
    <p>Team one creates the shared topic: <filepath>customer-support.dita</filepath>. The topic
     contains the following mark-up:</p>
    <codeblock> &lt;related-links>
  &lt;link keyref="extended-warranties" href="common/extended-warranties.dita"/>
 &lt;/related-links></codeblock>
   </li>
   <li>
    <p>The teams that need the link to the topic about extended warranties can reference the
      <filepath>customer-support.dita</filepath> topic in their DITA maps. When processed, the
     related link in the topic resolves to the <filepath>common/extended-warranties.dita</filepath>
     topic.</p>
   </li>
   <li>
    <p>The teams that do not want the related link to the topic about extended warranties can
          include a key definition in their DITA map that does not include an <xmlatt>href</xmlatt>
          attribute, for example: </p>
    <codeblock>&lt;map>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
  &lt;keydef keys="extended-warranties"/>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/map></codeblock>
    <p>When processed, the related link in the topic is not rendered.</p>
   </li>
   <li>
    <p>Yet another team wants to simply have a paragraph about extended warranties printed. They
     define the key definition for "extended-warranties" as follows:</p>
    <codeblock>&lt;map>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
  &lt;keydef keys="extended-warranties"/>
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;linktext>This product does not offer extended warranties.&lt;/linktext>
    &lt;/topicmeta>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/map></codeblock>
    <p>When this team renders their content, there is no hyperlink in the output, just the text "<ph
            >This</ph> product does not offer extended warranties"
          statement.</p>
   </li>
  </ol>
 </conbody>
</concept>
