<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="example-index-range-defined-in-a-topic-prolog">
    <title>Example: Index range defined in a topic prolog</title>
    <shortdesc>In this scenario, an index range is defined in the topic prolog. Ranges defined in a
        prolog cover subtopics, including those nested based on a map.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>Specifying an index range in a topic prolog is useful for defining an index range that
            contains a topic and its children.</p>
        <p>Consider the following DITA map which contains topics about a small company's operating
            procedures. The map contains a topic about accounting (<filepath>acct.dita</filepath>),
            which has child topics: <filepath>procedures.dita</filepath> and
                <filepath>forms.dita</filepath>.</p>
        <codeblock>&lt;map>
  &lt;title>Company procedures&lt;/title>
  &lt;topicref href="acct.dita">
    &lt;topicref href="procedures.dita"/>
    &lt;topicref href="forms.dita"/>
  &lt;/topicref>
  ...
&lt;/map></codeblock>
        <p>The information developer wants an index entry that will span
                <filepath>acct.dita</filepath> and its children. He uses the following markup in
                <filepath>acct.dita</filepath>:</p>
        <codeblock>&lt;topic id="accounting-at-acme">
  &lt;title>Accounting at Acme&lt;/title>
  &lt;prolog>
    &lt;metadata>
      &lt;keywords>
        &lt;indexterm start="acct">accounting&lt;/indexterm>
      &lt;/keywords>
    &lt;/metadata>
  &lt;/prolog>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/topic></codeblock>
        <p>This markup specifies that the index range begins with the start of the topic title, and
            the end of the range is the end of the <filepath>forms.dita</filepath> topic. The index
            range includes the "Accounting at Acme" topic and its two child topics.</p>
        <p>The information developer could have included an end element (for example,
                <codeph>&lt;indexterm end="acct"/></codeph>) in the topic prolog, but it is not
            necessary. If the topic prolog had included an end element, the effective index range
            would be identical.</p>
        <draft-comment author="Eliot Kimber" time="09 August 2019">
            <p>I think this rule has the same problem as for ending the range at topic body
                boundaries: it means you couldn't start a range in one topic's prolog and end it in
                the prolog of another sibling topic.</p>
            <p>That would be a hard thing to manage so probably not a realistic use case, so I can
                see an argument that prolog-defined ranges span the effective topic tree rooted at
                the topic with the prolog. But there's no particular reason to impose the
                constraint.</p>
            <p>That is, a processor that can handle index ranges can also detect when a range is
                started in a topic prolog but not ended in one and report the case.</p>
        </draft-comment>
    </conbody>
</concept>
