<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="example-alternate-text-for-an-image">
    <title>Example: Alternate text for an image</title>
    <shortdesc>In this scenario, an image of a ticketing workflow also provides alternate text that
        describes the image.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
    <p>The following code sample references an image
        <filepath>workflow.png</filepath>. Alternate text describes the
      workflow that is shown in the image.<draft-comment
        author="Robert Johnson" time="20220618">This example alt text is
        rather long. The first sentence is enough to communicate the
        meaning of the image. Text longer than one or two sentences should
        generally be moved to the running text. It is aceptable in that
        case to reference the running text in the alt text. If I saw this
        example, I would recommend moving everything after the first
        sentence to the running text, where it would likely be helpful for
        all users. I would then add something like, "See the text after the
        image for details about the workflow."<div>
          <p>[Kris Eberlein, 18 June 2022]</p>
          <p>I completely agree with about best practices for alternate
            text. But this is not an example of a full topic, just the
            markup for an <xmlelement>image</xmlelement> element. And given
            the context of an <xmlelement>image</xmlelement> element alone,
            without the context of the full topic, I think we need a full
            description of the image and what it shows. </p>
          <p>Should we rework this topic to include markup for an entire
            topic? I don't think so, since the purpose of this topic is to
            talk about the image element and accessibility considerations,
            not demonstrate best practices for alternate text.</p>
          <p>Now, if you can think of a way to handle both objectives
            concurrently ...</p>
        </div></draft-comment></p>
    <codeblock id="codeblock_s41_sj4_xtb">&lt;image href="workflow.png">
  &lt;alt>The image is a workflow diagram that shows a ticketing workflow.
       The initial status is "Open". From there, the ticket can move to
       "Closed" or "In progress". A ticket that is "In progress" can move
       to "Done" or "Blocked". A "Blocked" ticket can move back to "In
       Progress" or directly to "Done". There are no steps beyond "Closed"
       or "Done".&lt;/alt>
&lt;/image></codeblock>
  </conbody>
</concept>
