<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="examples-of-dita-markup-for-accessibility">
    <title>Examples of DITA markup for accessibility</title>
    <shortdesc>This section contains examples of how DITA markup
    facilitates accessibility.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="09 June 2022">
      <p>A couple of comments:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>This section does not include examples of simple tables and
          acccessibility. Do we need an example here? Can we simply point
          to the examples in the <xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement>
          topic?</li>
        <li>The example topics about <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> were
          relocated from the element-reference
            <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> topic. They were reviewed as
          part of that content, but might need some slight tweak now that
          they are part of the "Accessibility" topic.<div>
            <p>[Dawn Stevens, 14 June 2022] My opinion on this is that we
              should have the same approach for table and simpletable.
              either point to examples in the other topics or have examples
              here. </p>
          </div><div>
            <p>Kris Eberlein, 15 June 2022</p>
            <p>OK, sounds as if we should add a topic for "Example: Simple
              table" and cover accessibility markup that is applicable to
              simple table. We have two examples in the
                <xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement> element-reference
              topic (simple table and simple table with row and column
              spanning), but neither example explicitly talks about
                accessibility.<div>[Bob Johnson, 18 June 2022] I agree with
                taking a consistent approach to the two table
                options.</div></p>
          </div></li>
      </ul>
    </draft-comment>
  </conbody>
</concept>
