<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="example-of-an-index-range">
    <title>Example: Index ranges</title>
    <shortdesc>There are three locations that can declare a index range: the body of a topic, the
    prolog of a topic, and a map.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
    <section>
      <title>Index range within a single topic</title>
      <p>In the following code sample, the index range begins at the start of the second paragraph
        and continues to the beginning of the last paragraph. If the matching end range markup was
        not included, the index range would end at the end of the body element.</p>
      <draft-comment author="Eliot Kimber" time="09 August 2019">
        <p>Again, I don't think the boundary rule is necessary or appropriate.</p>
      </draft-comment>
      <codeblock>&lt;topic id="accounting">
  &lt;title>Accounting regulations&lt;/title>
  &lt;body>
    &lt;p>Be ethical in your accounting.&lt;/p>
    &lt;p>&lt;indexterm start="acctrules">rules&lt;/indexterm>Remember to do all of the following: ...&lt;/p>
    &lt;!-- ...pages worth of rules... -->
    &lt;p>&lt;indexterm end="acctrules"/>Failure to comply will get you audited.&lt;/p>
  &lt;/body>
  &lt;!-- Potential sub-topics -->
&lt;/topic></codeblock>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Index range that starts within a topic prolog</title>
      <p>In the following code sample (<filepath>acct.dita)</filepath>, the range begins with the
        start of the topic title; it includes the entire topic and any subtopics. The range ends
        within the same prolog, regardless of whether <codeph>&lt;indexterm end="acct"/></codeph> is
        specified in the prolog.</p>
      <draft-comment author="Eliot Kimber" time="09 August 2019">
        <p>I think this rule has the same problem as for ending the range at topic body boundaries:
          it means you couldn't start a range in one topic's prolog and end it in the prolog of
          another sibling topic.</p>
        <p>That would be a hard thing to manage so probably not a realistic use case, so I can see
          an argument that prolog-defined ranges span the effective topic tree rooted at the topic
          with the prolog. But there's no particular reason to impose the constraint.</p>
        <p>That is, a processor that can handle index ranges can also detect when a range is started
          in a topic prolog but not ended in one and report the case.</p>
      </draft-comment>
      <codeblock>
&lt;!-- acct.dita -->
&lt;topic id="accounting">
  &lt;title>Accounting regulations&lt;/title>
  &lt;prolog>
    &lt;metadata>
      &lt;keywords>
        &lt;indexterm start="acct">accounting&lt;/indexterm>
      &lt;/keywords>
    &lt;/metadata>
  &lt;/prolog>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/topic></codeblock>
      <p>Ranges defined in a prolog cover subtopics, including those nested based on a map; in the
        following code sample, this means that the range covers all of
          <filepath>acct.dita</filepath>, as well as the child topics
          <filepath>procedures.dita</filepath> and <filepath>forms.dita</filepath>:</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;topicref href="acct.dita">
  &lt;topicref href="procedures.dita"/>
  &lt;topicref href="forms.dita"/>
&lt;/topicref></codeblock>
    </section>
    <section id="index-range-in-map">
      <title>Index range specified within a map</title>
      <p>In the final code sample, the index range is specified in a map.</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;topicref href="acct.dita">
  &lt;topicmeta>
    &lt;keywords>
      &lt;indexterm start="acct">accounting&lt;/indexterm>
      &lt;indexterm end="acct"/>
      &lt;indexterm start="govt">government forms&lt;/indexterm>
    &lt;/keywords>
  &lt;/topicmeta>
  &lt;!-- Nested topicref elements -->
&lt;/topicref>
&lt;topicref href="taxfiling.dita">
  &lt;topicmeta>
    &lt;keywords>
      &lt;indexterm end="govt"/>
    &lt;/keywords>
  &lt;/topicmeta>
&lt;/topicref></codeblock>
      <p>The index range for "accounting" begins with the start of the first topic title in
          <filepath>acct.dita</filepath>; it includes that topic as well as any subtopics. </p>
      <p>The index range for "government forms" begins with the start of the first topic title in
          <filepath>acct.dita</filepath>, and continues until the end of the last element in the
        file <filepath>taxfiling.dita</filepath>. If the end range for "govt" was not specified, the
        range would continue to the end of the map.</p>
      <draft-comment author="Eliot Kimber" time="09 August 2019">I think this should be a reportable
        error or warning since it's almost certainly not the author's intent for a range to span to
        the end of the publication.</draft-comment>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="13 August 2019">
        <p>Eliot, I disagree. If the map is a submap that is consumed by a larger publication (for
          example, a map of examples of using keys), I think the default range boundary of "end of
          the map" might be entirely appropriate.</p>
        <p>Also, this is example is stating behavior about ranges defined in maps that we do not lay
          out in <xref href="index-ranges.dita"/> – in particular, that the presence of an end
          element in a map signifies that the end-of-the-range is the <b>end</b> of the topic that
          contains the end element. This makes good sense to me, but it conflicts with the usual
          expectation that an <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element in a map (or prolog) is a
          point reference to the start of the topic title.</p>
      </draft-comment>
    </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
