<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept_bgq_np2_mp">
 <title>Example: Key scopes and omnibus publications</title>
 <shortdesc>Key scopes enable you to create omnibus publications that include multiple submaps that
    define the same key names for common items, such as product names or common topic
    clusters.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>In this scenario, a training organization wants to produce a deliverable that includes all of
   their training course materials. Each course manual uses common keys for standard parts of the
   course materials, including "prerequisites," "overview", "assessment", and "summary.</p>
  <p>An information architect creates a root map that contains the following markup:</p>
  <codeblock>&lt;map xml:lang="en">
  &lt;title>Training courses&lt;/title>
  &lt;mapref href="course-1.ditamap"/>
  &lt;mapref href="course-2.ditamap"/>
  &lt;mapref href="course-3.ditamap"/>
  &lt;topicref href="omnibus-summary.dita"/>
&lt;/map></codeblock>
  <p>Each of the submaps contain <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements that refer to resources
      using the <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute. Each submap uses common keys for standard parts
      of the course materials, including "prerequisites," "overview", "assessment", and "summary",
      and their key definitions bind the key names to course-specific resources. For example:</p>
  <codeblock>&lt;map xml:lang="en">
  &lt;title>Training course #1&lt;/title>
  &lt;mapref href="course-1/key-definitions.ditamap"/>
  &lt;topicref keyref="prerequisites"/>
  &lt;topicref keyref="overview"/>
  &lt;topicref keyref="assessment"/>
  &lt;topicref keyref="summary"/>
&lt;/map></codeblock>
  <p>Without using key scopes, the effective key definitions for the common keys resolve to those
   found in <filepath>course-1.ditamap</filepath>. This is not the desired outcome. By adding key
   scopes to the submaps, however, the information architect can ensure that the key references in
   the submaps resolve to the course-specific key definitions.</p>
  <codeblock>&lt;map xml:lang="en">
  &lt;title>Training courses&lt;/title>
  &lt;mapref href="course-1.ditamap" <b>keyscope="course-1"</b>/>
  &lt;mapref href="course-2.ditamap" <b>keyscope="course-2"</b>/>
  &lt;mapref href="course-3.ditamap" <b>keyscope="course-3"</b>/>
  &lt;topicref href="omnibus-summary.dita"/>
&lt;/map></codeblock>
  <p>The information architect does <b>not</b> set <codeph>keys="summary"</codeph> on the
        <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element in the root map. Doing so would mean that all key
      references to "summary" in the submaps would resolve to
        <filepath>omnibus-summary.dita</filepath>, rather than the course-specific summary topics.
      This is because key definitions located in parent scopes override those located in child
      scopes.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
