<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="cascadetopicrefrole">
  <title>Example: How <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> roles cascade to referenced maps</title>
  <shortdesc>In this scenario, a specialized topicref references content in another map.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>cascading metadata<indexterm>example<indexterm>cascading topicref
              roles</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>examples<indexterm><indexterm>cascading metadata<indexterm>cascading topicref
                roles</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>Consider the scenario of a <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element from the Book map
      specialization that references a DITA map. This scenario could take several forms:<dl
        id="dl_ohc_nq5_nsb">
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Referenced map contains a single top-level <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
            element</dt>
          <dd>The entire branch functions as if it were included in the bookmap; the top-level
              <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element is processed as if it were the
              <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Referenced map contains multiple top-level <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
            elements</dt>
          <dd>Each top-level <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element is processed as if it were a
              <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element (the referencing element).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Referenced map contains a single <xmlelement>appendix</xmlelement> element</dt>
          <dd>The <xmlelement>appendix</xmlelement> element is processed as it were a
              <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Referenced map contains a single <xmlelement>part</xmlelement> element, with nested
              <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> elements.</dt>
          <dd>The <xmlelement>part</xmlelement> element is processed as it were a
              <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element. Nested <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement>
            elements might not be understandable by processors; applications can recover as
            described above.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element references a single
              <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element rather than a map</dt>
          <dd>The referenced <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element is processed as if it were a
              <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
