<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="cascadetopicrefrole">
  <title>Example: How <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> roles are imposed on referenced maps</title>
  <shortdesc>In this scenario, a specialized <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element references
    content in another map.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata/>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>Consider the scenario of a <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element from the Bookmap
      specialization that references a DITA map. This scenario could take several forms:<dl
        id="dl_ohc_nq5_nsb">
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Referenced map contains a single top-level <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
            element</dt>
          <dd>The entire branch functions as if it were included in the bookmap<ph rev="review-k">.
              The</ph> "chapter" role is imposed on the branch, with the result that the top-level
              <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element is processed as if it were the
              <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Referenced map contains multiple top-level <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
            elements</dt>
          <dd>The "chapter" role is imposed on each top-level element in the referenced map. Each
            top-level <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element is processed as if it were a
              <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Referenced map contains a single <xmlelement>appendix</xmlelement> element</dt>
          <dd>The "chapter" role is imposed on the <xmlelement>appendix</xmlelement> element, which
            is processed as it were a <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Referenced map contains a single <xmlelement>part</xmlelement> element, with nested
              <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> elements</dt>
          <dd>The "chapter" role is imposed on the <xmlelement>part</xmlelement> element, which is
            processed as it were a <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element. Nested
              <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> elements might not be understandable by processors,
            which can treat this as an error or recover as they are able.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element references a single
              <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element rather than a map</dt>
          <dd>The "chapter" role is imposed on the referenced <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
            element, which is processed as if it were a <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement>
            element.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
