<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="chunkedge" xml:lang="en">
<title>Example: Combining topics within a split context<draft-comment
      author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="04 February 2022">
      <p>Does this need a more precise title? I don't think we use the term
        "split context" anywhere else ...</p>
    </draft-comment></title>
<shortdesc>While <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attributes are ignored when <ph
      rev="review-h"><codeph>chunk="combine"</codeph></ph> is already in
    effect, it is possible to use <codeph>chunk="combine"</codeph> when
      <codeph>chunk="split"</codeph> is in effect.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>chunking<indexterm>examples<indexterm>combining
              documents within a split
          context</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>examples<indexterm><indexterm>chunking<indexterm>combining
                documents within a split
            context</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
<conbody>
<fig id="fig_htr_jyd_1gb">
      <title rev="review-h">Source DITA map</title>
      <!--<title>Map with default "split" action, that also uses "combine"</title>-->
      <p>Consider the following DITA map, where
          <codeph>chunk="split"</codeph>
        <ph rev="review-h">is specified</ph> on the root element. <ph
          rev="review-h">The effect of this operation</ph> is that all
        topic documents within <ph rev="review-h">the</ph> map structure
        are split by default. <ph rev="review-h">However, a map branch also
          specifies <codeph>chunk="combine"</codeph>:</ph></p>
<codeblock>&lt;map <b>chunk="split"</b>>
  &lt;title>Split most, but not one branch&lt;/title>
  &lt;topicref href="splitme.dita">
    &lt;!-- More topic references -->
  &lt;/topicref>
  &lt;topicref href="exception.dita" <b>chunk="combine"</b>>
    &lt;!-- More topic references -->
  &lt;/topicref>
  &lt;topicref href="splitmetoo.dita">
    &lt;!-- More topic references -->
  &lt;/topicref><ph rev="review-h">
&lt;/map></ph></codeblock>
      <p><ph rev="review-h">Assume also</ph> that no other
          <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attributes are specified in the map.</p>
</fig>
    <fig>
      <title>Evaluation of <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attributes in the
        map</title>
    </fig>
    <p>The following points are true when <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> is
      evaluated:</p>
    <ul id="ol_p3y_wng_thb">
      <li>The document <filepath>splitme.dita</filepath> is <ph
          rev="review-h">rendered</ph> as <ph rev="review-h">one result
          document for each topic.</ph>. The same is true for any other <ph
          rev="review-h">topic</ph> document within the map branch.</li>
      <li>The second <ph rev="review-h">map</ph> branch<ph rev="review-h">,
          where the outermost <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements
          references <filepath>exception.dita</filepath>, </ph>is <ph
          rev="review-h">rendered</ph> as a single <ph rev="review-h"
          >result</ph> document <ph rev="review-h">that combines all topic
          documents</ph> within <ph rev="review-h">the map</ph>
        branch.</li>
      <li>The document <filepath>splitmetoo.dita</filepath> is <ph
          rev="review-h">rendered</ph> as <ph rev="review-h">one result
          document for each topic.</ph>. The same is true for any other <ph
          rev="review-h">topic</ph>document within the map branch.</li>
    </ul>
</conbody>
</concept>
