<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="reference_cfb_ck4_5p">
  <title>Example: Constrain attributes for the <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> element using
    DTD</title>
  <shortdesc>In this scenario, a <ph rev="2.0">DITA architect</ph> wants to
    redefine the attributes for the <xmlelement>section</xmlelement>
    element. <ph rev="2.0">They want</ph> to make the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt>
    attribute required.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>constraints<indexterm>examples<indexterm>restricting attributes for an
              element</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>examples<indexterm>constraints<indexterm>restricting attributes for an
              element</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <example id="example">
      <ol>
        <li rev="2.0">The DITA architect creates a constraint module:
            <filepath>idRequiredSectionContraint.mod</filepath>.</li>
        <li><ph rev="2.0">They add</ph> the following content to
            <filepath>idRequiredSectionContraint.mod</filepath>:<codeblock>&lt;!-- Declares the entities referenced in the constrained content  -->
&lt;!-- model.                                                       -->

&lt;!ENTITY % localization-atts
              "translate
                          (no |
                           yes |
                           -dita-use-conref-target)
                                    #IMPLIED
               xml:lang
                          CDATA
                                    #IMPLIED
               dir
                          (lro |
                           ltr |
                           rlo |
                           rtl |
                           -dita-use-conref-target)
                                    #IMPLIED"
>
&lt;!ENTITY % filter-atts
              "props
                          CDATA
                                    #IMPLIED
               %props-attribute-extensions;"
>
&lt;!ENTITY % select-atts
              "%filter-atts;
               base
                          CDATA
                                    #IMPLIED
               %base-attribute-extensions;
               importance
                          (default |
                           deprecated |
                           high |
                           low |
                           normal |
                           obsolete |
                           optional |
                           recommended |
                           required |
                           urgent |
                           -dita-use-conref-target)
                                    #IMPLIED
               rev
                          CDATA
                                    #IMPLIED
               status
                          (changed |
                           deleted |
                           new |
                           unchanged |
                           -dita-use-conref-target)
                                    #IMPLIED"
>
&lt;!ENTITY % conref-atts
              "conref
                          CDATA
                                    #IMPLIED
               conrefend
                          CDATA
                                    #IMPLIED
               conaction
                          (mark |
                           pushafter |
                           pushbefore |
                           pushreplace |
                           -dita-use-conref-target)
                                    #IMPLIED
               conkeyref
                          CDATA
                                    #IMPLIED"
>
&lt;!-- Redefines the attributes available on section  -->

&lt;!ENTITY % section.attributes
              "id
                          ID
                                    #REQUIRED
               %conref-atts;
               %select-atts;
               %localization-atts;
               outputclass
                          CDATA
                                    #IMPLIED"
></codeblock><p><ph rev="review-p">Note that the</ph> DITA
            architect had to declare all the parameter entities that are
            referenced in the redefined attributes for
              <xmlelement>section</xmlelement>. If <ph rev="2.0">they</ph>
            did not do so, none of the attributes that are declared in the
            parameter entities would be available on the
              <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> element. Furthermore, since
            the <parameterentity>select-atts</parameterentity> parameter
            entity references the
              <parameterentity>filter-atts</parameterentity> parameter
            entity, the <parameterentity>filter-atts</parameterentity> must
            be declared and it must precede the declaration for the
              <parameterentity>select-atts</parameterentity> parameter
            entity. The
              <parameterentity>props-attribute-extensions</parameterentity>
            and
              <parameterentity>base-attribute-extensions</parameterentity>
            parameter entities do not need to be declared in the constraint
            module, because they are declared in the document-type shells
            before the inclusion of the constraint module.</p></li>
        <li><ph rev="2.0">They add</ph> the constraint module to the
            <filepath>catalog.xml</filepath> file.</li>
        <li><ph rev="2.0">They then integrate</ph> the constraint module
          into the applicable document-type shells.</li>
        <li><ph rev="review-p">They check their</ph> test topic to ensure
          that the content model is modified as expected.</li>
      </ol>
    </example>
  </conbody>
  
</concept>
