<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="example-ditavalref-error-conditions">
  <title>Example: <xmlelement>ditavalref</xmlelement> error conditions</title>
  <shortdesc>In this scenario, multiple, non-equivalent copies of the same resource name are created
    as a result of branch filtering. In addition, the process results in duplicate key names, making
    it impossible to reliably reference individual result topics.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <example id="ditavalref-error-conditions" otherprops="examples">
      <p>The following map fragment contains several error conditions that result in name
        clashes:</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;topicref href="a.dita" keys="a">
  &lt;ditavalref href="one.ditaval"/>
  &lt;ditavalref href="two.ditaval"/>
  &lt;topicref href="b.dita" keys="b"/>
&lt;/topicref>
&lt;topicref href="a.dita"/>
&lt;topicref href="c.dita" keys="c">
  &lt;ditavalref href="one.ditaval">
    &lt;ditavalmeta>
      &lt;dvrResourceSuffix>-token&lt;/dvrResourceSuffix>
    &lt;/ditavalmeta>
  &lt;/ditavalref>
  &lt;ditavalref href="two.ditaval">
    &lt;ditavalmeta>
      &lt;dvrResourceSuffix>-token&lt;/dvrResourceSuffix>
    &lt;/ditavalmeta>
  &lt;/ditavalref>
&lt;/topicref>
</codeblock>
      <p>In this sample, the effective map that results from evaluating the filter conditions has
        several clashes. In some cases the same document must be processed with conflicting
        conditions, using the same URI. In addition, because no key scope is added or modified, keys
        in the branch are duplicated in such a way that only one version is available for use. When
        the branches are evaluated to create distinct copies, the filtered branches result in the
        following equivalent
        map:<codeblock>&lt;topicref href="a.dita" keys="a"> &lt;!-- a.dita to be filtered by one.ditaval -->
  &lt;topicref href="b.dita" keys="b"/>  &lt;!-- b.dita to be filtered by one.ditaval -->
&lt;/topicref>
&lt;topicref href="a.dita" keys="a"> &lt;!-- a.dita to be filtered by two.ditaval; key "a" ignored -->
  &lt;topicref href="b.dita" keys="b"/>  &lt;!-- b.dita to be filtered by two.ditaval; key "b" ignored -->
&lt;/topicref>
&lt;topicref href="a.dita"/>
&lt;topicref href="c-token.dita" keys="c"> 
  &lt;!-- c-token.ditaval to be filtered by one.ditaval -->
&lt;/topicref>
&lt;topicref href="c-token.dita" keys="c"> 
  &lt;!-- c-token.ditaval to be filtered by two.ditaval, key "c" ignored -->
&lt;/topicref></codeblock>
      </p>
      <p>The equivalent map highlights several problems with the original source:<ul>
          <li>The key names "a" and "b" are present in a branch that will be duplicated. No key
            scope is introduced for either version of the branch, meaning that the keys will be
            duplicated. Because there can only be one effective key definition for "a" or "b", it
            only is possible to reference one version of the topic using keys.</li>
          <li>The key name "c" is present on another branch that will be duplicated, resulting in
            the same problem.</li>
          <li>The file <filepath>c.dita</filepath> is filtered with two sets of conditions, each of
            which explicitly maps the filtered resource to <filepath>c-token.dita</filepath>. This
            is an error condition that processors need to report.</li>
          <li>In situations where resource names map directly to output file names, such as an HTML5
            rendering that creates files based on the original resource name, the following name
            conflicts also occur. In this case a processor would need to report an error, use an
            alternate naming scheme, or both:<ol>
              <li><filepath>a.dita</filepath> generates <filepath>a.html</filepath> using three
                alternate set of conditions. One version uses <filepath>one.ditaval</filepath>, one
                version uses <filepath>two.ditaval</filepath>, and the third version uses no
                filtering.</li>
              <li><filepath>b.dita</filepath> generates <filepath>b.html</filepath> using two
                alternate set of conditions. One version uses <filepath>one.ditaval</filepath>, and
                the other version uses <filepath>two.ditaval</filepath>.</li>
            </ol></li>
        </ul></p>
    </example>
  </conbody>
</concept>
