<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="flagging">
 <title>Flagging based on metadata attributes</title>
 <shortdesc>When rendering content, a conditional processing profile can be used to specify whether
  an element's content is flagged based on its conditional processing
  attributes.<!--Flagging is the application of text, images, or formatting during rendering. --></shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p otherprops="examples">For example, flagging can be used to highlight the fact that content
   applies to a specific audience or operating system. Flagging can also draw a reader's attention
   to content that has been marked as being revised.</p>
  <p>When deciding whether to flag a particular element, a processor evaluates each value. Wherever
   an attribute value that has been set as flagged appears (for example,
    <codeph>audience="administrator"</codeph>), the processor adds the flag. When multiple flags
   apply to a single element, multiple flags are rendered, typically in the order that they are
   encountered.</p>
  <p>When the same element evaluates as both flagged and included, the element is both flagged and
   included. When the same element evaluates as both flagged and filtered (for example, flagged
   because of a value for the <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt> attribute and filtered because of a value
   for the <xmlatt>product</xmlatt> attribute value), the element is filtered.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
