<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="attributegeneralize" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Attribute generalization</title>
  <shortdesc>DITA provides a syntax to generalize attributes that have been specialized from the
      <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>base</xmlatt> attribute. Specialization-aware processors
      <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> process both the specialized and
    generalized forms of an attribute as equivalent in their values.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <!--<draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="5 April 2014" disposition="informational">Both Eliot and I think that the above normative statement should be <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MUST</term>, as it is a fundamental part of interoperability. However, the 1.2 spec shipped with a <term>should</term>.</draft-comment>-->
    <p>When a specialized attribute is generalized to an ancestor attribute, the value of the
      ancestor attribute consists of the name of the specialized attribute followed by its
      specialized value in parentheses. For example, if <xmlatt>jobrole</xmlatt> is an attribute
      specialized from <xmlatt>person</xmlatt>, which in turn is specialized from
        <xmlatt>props</xmlatt>:</p>
    <ul id="ul_6BCECC8F518A421E94E4319755C102D5">
      <li id="li_A44359339EE446539903A0B26FE898BE"><codeph>jobrole="programmer"</codeph> can be
        generalized to <codeph>person="jobrole(programmer)"</codeph> or to
          <codeph>props="jobrole(programmer)"</codeph></li>
      <li id="li_D5E2DA845D944AE9975D7AF4A96B39BC"><codeph>props="jobrole(programmer)"</codeph> can
        be respecialized to <codeph>person="jobrole(programmer)"</codeph> or to
          <codeph>jobrole="programmer"</codeph></li>
    </ul>
    <p>In this example, processors performing generalization and respecialization can use the
        <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> attribute to determine the ancestry of the specialized
        <xmlatt>jobrole</xmlatt> attribute, and therefore the validity of the specialized
        <xmlatt>person</xmlatt> attribute as an intermediate target for generalization.</p>
    <p>If more than one attribute is generalized, the value of each is separately represented in
      this way in the value of the ancestor attribute.</p>
    <p>Generalized attributes are typically not expected to be authored or edited directly. They are
      used by processors to preserve the values of the specialized attributes during the time or in
      the circumstances in which the document is in a generalized form.</p>
    <p>A single element <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST NOT</term> contain both
      generalized and specialized values for the same attribute. For example, the following
        <xmlelement>p</xmlelement> element provides two values for the <xmlatt>jobrole</xmlatt>
      attribute, one in a generalized syntax and the other in a specialized
      syntax:<codeblock>&lt;p person="jobrole(programmer)" jobrole="admin">
    &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/p></codeblock>This
      is an error condition, since it means the document has been only partially generalized, or
      that the document has been generalized and then edited using a specialized document type. </p>
  </conbody>
</concept>

