<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="generalization-overview">
 <title>Overview of generalization</title>
 <shortdesc>Specialized content can be generalized to any ancestor type. The generalization process
  can preserve information about the former level of specialization to allow round-tripping between
  specialized and unspecialized forms of the same content.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm><xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute<indexterm>generalization</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>generalization<indexterm><xmlatt>class</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>specialization</xmlatt>
      attributes</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>generalization<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm><xmlatt>specializations</xmlatt>
     attribute<indexterm>generalization</indexterm></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <conbody>
  <p>All DITA documents contain a mix of markup from at least one structural type and zero or more
   domains. When generalizing the document, any individual structural type or domain can be left
   as-is, or it can be generalized to any of its ancestors. If the document will be edited or
   processed in generalized form, it might be necessary to have a document-type shell that includes
   all non-generalized modules from the original document-type shell.</p>
  <p>Generalization serves several purposes:</p>
  <ul id="purposes">
   <li>It can be used to migrate content. For example, if a specialization is unsuccessful or is no
    longer needed, the content can be generalized back to a less specialized form.</li>
   <li>It can be used for temporary round-tripping. For example, if content is shared with a process
    that is not specialization aware, it can be temporarily generalized for that process and then
    returned to specialized form.</li>
   <li>It can allow reuse of specialized content in an environment that does not support the
    specialization. Similar to round-tripping, content can be generalized for sharing, without the
    need to re-specialize.</li>
  </ul>
  <p>When generalizing for migration, the <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute and
    <xmlatt>specializations</xmlatt> attribute need to be absent from the generalized instance
   document, so that the default values in the document-type shell are used.</p>
  <p>When generalizing for round-tripping, the <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute and
    <xmlatt>specializations</xmlatt> attribute <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> retain the
   original specialized values in the generalized instance document.</p>
<p>Note that when using constraints, a document instance can always be converted from a constrained
   document type to an unconstrained document type merely by switching the binding of the document
   instance to the less restricted document type shell. No renaming of elements is needed to remove
   constraints.</p>
  <p rev="2.0">However, a document whose document-type shell uses expansion modules might not be
   interchangeable without first generalizing the element and attribute types that were introduced
   by the expansion modules. </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
