<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="id" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>ID attribute</title>
  <shortdesc>The <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute assigns an identifier to DITA elements so that the
    elements can be referenced.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <p>The <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute is available for most elements. An element must have a
      valid value for the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute  before it can be referenced using a
      fragment identifier. The requirements for the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute differ depending
      on whether it is used on a topic element, a map element, or an element within a topic or
      map.</p>
    <p>All values for the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute must be XML name tokens.</p>
    <p>The <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attributes for <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> and
        <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> elements are declared as XML attribute type ID; therefore, they
      must be unique with respect to other XML IDs within the XML document that contains the topic
      or map element. The <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute for most other elements within topics and
      maps is not declared to be XML ID; this means that XML parsers do not require that the values
      of those <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attributes be unique. However, the DITA specification requires
      that all IDs be unique within the context of a topic. For this reason, tools might provide an
      additional layer of validation to flag violations of this rule.</p>
    <p>Within documents that contain multiple topics, the values of the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt>
      attribute for all non-topic elements that have the same nearest-ancestor-topic element need to
      be unique with respect to each other. The values of the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute for
      non-topic elements can be the same as non-topic elements with different nearest-ancestor-topic
      elements. Therefore, within a single DITA document that contains more than one topic, the
      values of the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute of the non-topic elements need only to be unique
      within each topic.</p>
    <p>Within a map document, the values of the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attributes for all elements
        <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> be unique. When two elements
      within a map have the same value for the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute, processors <term
        outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> resolve references to that ID to the
      first element with the given ID value in document order.</p>
    <fig>
      <title>Summary of requirements for the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute</title>
      <simpletable frame="all">
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Element</stentry>
          <stentry>XML attribute type for <xmlatt>id</xmlatt></stentry>
          <stentry>Must be unique within</stentry>
          <stentry>Required?</stentry>
         
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry><xmlelement>map</xmlelement></stentry>
          <stentry>ID</stentry>
          <stentry>document</stentry>
          <stentry>No</stentry>
          
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry><xmlelement>topic</xmlelement></stentry>
          <stentry>ID</stentry>
          <stentry>document</stentry>
          <stentry>Yes</stentry>
          
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>sub-map (elements nested within a map)</stentry>
          <stentry>NMTOKEN</stentry>
          <stentry>document</stentry>
          <stentry>Usually no, with some exceptions</stentry>
         
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>sub-topic (elements nested within a topic)</stentry>
          <stentry>NMTOKEN</stentry>
          <stentry>individual topic</stentry>
          <stentry>Usually no, with some exceptions</stentry>
         
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
    </fig>
    <draft-comment author="robander" audience="spec-editors" time="22 feb 2022">Changed "has no
      impact on processing" to "has no required impact on processing". This is non-normative note so
      language does not need to be quite so rigorous but what we're saying is that "adding or
      removing an ID does not change how the specification requires that you process something" …
      I'd be free to set up my *own* processing so that having an ID has an impact on
        processing.<p>Secondary thought though, we say "For all elements", but that's not 100% true;
        not having an ID on topic, where it's required, will result in parser errors and thus have
        an impact on processing. We could simply change this to "For most elements" while retaining
        the fn example.</p></draft-comment>
    <note>For all elements other than footnote (<xmlelement>fn</xmlelement>), the presence of a
      value for the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute has no impact on processing. For
        <xmlelement>fn</xmlelement>, the presence or absence of a valid <xmlatt>id</xmlatt>
      attribute affects how the element is processed. This is important for tools that automatically
      assign <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attributes to all elements.</note>
  </conbody>
</concept>
