<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="index-page-references">
    <title>Index page references</title>
    <shortdesc>Typically, an <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element instructs a processor to
        generate an index entry with a page reference.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>indexes<indexterm>page references</indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <!--<note>The following material applies to <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements without index ranges or index redirection elements.</note>-->
        <p> The nesting of <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements and the presence of
            redirection elements has an effect on page references in the generated index:</p>
        <ul>
            <li>An <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element that does not contain child
                    <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements (or an
                    <xmlelement>index-see</xmlelement> element) contributes a page number to the
                generated index.</li>
            <li>An <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element that contains child
                    <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements contributes to the hierarchy of the
                multi-level index entry that is generated. Only the final nested
                    <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element contributes a page number to the
                generated index.</li>
            <li>If an <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element also contains one or more
                    <xmlelement>index-see</xmlelement> elements, only the
                    <xmlelement>index-see</xmlelement> elements contribute page numbers to the
                generated index.<draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="21 July 2019">
                    <p>Why would the <xmlelement>index-see</xmlelement> element contribute a page
                        number?</p>
                    <p>28 July 2019: I think some of the confusion here revolves around how we
                        interpret <xmlelement>index-see</xmlelement> elements:</p>
                    <ul>
                        <li>Are we talking about the "see X" information that should be rendered in
                            the generated index at the entry generated from the
                                <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element that contained the
                                <xmlelement>index-see</xmlelement> element?</li>
                        <li>Are we talking about  <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element that
                            contains the same content as the <xmlelement>index-see</xmlelement>
                            element?</li>
                    </ul>
                </draft-comment></li>
            <li>If an <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element also contains one or more
                    <xmlelement>index-see-also</xmlelement> elements, both the
                    <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>index-see</xmlelement>
                elements contribute page numbers to the generated index.</li>
        </ul>
        <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="08 July 2019">
            <p>The following RFC-2119 statement is new for DITA 2.0. Thoughts?</p>
        </draft-comment>
        <p>(For processors that support indexing) If multiple <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement>
            elements exist that contain identical content, a processor <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
                >SHOULD</term> generate only a single index entry, although all locations associated
            with the <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element contribute page references.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
