<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="index-ranges">
    <title>Index ranges</title>
    <shortdesc>Authors can use the <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>end</xmlatt> attributes on
            <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements to index extended discussions. Processors
        generate index entries that range over several pages. </shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>indexes<indexterm>ranges</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>processing
                        expectations<indexterm>indexing<indexterm>ranges</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>The start of an index range is indicated by an <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> with a
                <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> attribute. This is called a <term>start element</term>.</p>
        <p>The end of a range is indicated by whichever of the following occurs first:</p>
        <ul>
            <li>An <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element with an <xmlatt>end</xmlatt> attribute
                with a value that matches the <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> attribute on the
                    <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element that begins the range</li>
            <li>The applicable scope boundary</li>
        </ul>
        <p>The applicable scope boundary depends on the location of the start element:</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Topic body</dt>
                <dd>End of the topic body.<draft-comment author="Eliot Kimber">
                        <p>I'm not sure I agree with this rule. If I start a range in one topic body
                            and end it in another topic body and the two topics are presented in a
                            sequence such that the second topic follows the first I would expect the
                            range to span from the first topic to the second.</p>
                        <p>So the rule is at least dependent on the presentation context--in a
                            continuous presentation there's no reason to impose boundaries, but in a
                            chunked presentation there might be.</p>
                        <p>I think there's an unstated assumption that indexes are rendered for
                            paged media where page numbers make sense but that's not a necessary
                            condition--for example, I could have chunked HTML output that includes
                            knowledge of the page numbers the content is rendered on in some other
                            paged rendering (i.e., the printed version of municipal code, where the
                            page numbers are captured in an element-to-page-number mapping and the
                            HTML rendering of the same content, where the page numbers are included
                            as literal or meta data in the HTML pages). </p>
                    </draft-comment></dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Topic prolog</dt>
                <dd>End of the topic that contains the start element, including any child
                    topics</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>DITA map</dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>Whichever of the following occurs first:</p>
                    <ul>
                        <li>End of the topic that contains the <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement>
                            element with the <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> attribute, including any child
                            topics</li>
                        <li>End of the DITA map</li>
                    </ul>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <!--<ul id="ul_cyg_1pf_bbb"><li>In a map, the start range points to the start of the topic title of the topic being referenced by its containing <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>. The end range points to the end of the final child contained by the topic being referenced by its containing <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>, or to the end of the final topic referenced by the current map (whichever comes first). When a start and end range occur in the same <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement>, the range applies to the containing <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> and its children.</li><li>In the prolog of a topic, the start range points to the start of the containing topic's title. The range ends with a matching index range end in the same prolog, regardless of whether the end range is specified. The range applies to the containing topic and all its children including child relationships defined in a map.</li><li>In the body of a topic, the range starts where the start <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> occurs and ends at the matching index range end indication within the same body, or at the end of the body, whichever comes first. Such an index range does not span sub-topics of the topic.</li></ul>-->
        <p>Processors that support index ranges <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> do the following:<ul>
                <li>Match <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>end</xmlatt> attributes by a
                    character-by-character comparison with all characters significant and no case
                    folding occurring<draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="09 July 2019">
                        <p>What does <q>all character significant and no case folding occurring</q>
                            mean?</p>
                    </draft-comment><draft-comment author="Eliot Kimber" time="09 August 2019">Since
                        the start and end values are essentially IDs I think "exact string match" is
                        sufficient.</draft-comment></li>
                <li>Ignore <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>end</xmlatt> attributes if they occur
                    on an <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element that has child
                        <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements.</li>
                <li>When index ranges with the same identifier overlap, the widest range applies,
                    and end ranges are matched with start ranges by last-in-first-out. In other
                    words, the ranges are interpreted as nested rather than overlapping with the
                    highest-level container taking precedence over narrower contained
                        ranges.<draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="09 July 2019">
                        <p>I'm not sure I understand this. Can we make it clearer?</p>
                    </draft-comment><draft-comment author="Eliot Kimber" time="09 August 2019">
                        <p>It seems clear to me: A range encompasses the longest range when there
                            are multiple starts and ends with the same value. The second sentence
                            doesn't really add.</p>
                        <p>Might be clearer to say something like: "When index ranges with the same
                            identifier overlap, the effective range is determined by matching the
                            earliest starting entry with the latest ending entry."</p>
                    </draft-comment></li>
                <li>Handle an end-of-range <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element that is nested
                    within one or more <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements. The end-of-range
                        <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element should have no content of its
                    own; if it contains content, that content is ignored.</li>
                <li>Ignore unmatched index range end indications.</li>
            </ul></p>
        <!--<p>As defined above, there is no such thing as an index range start that isn't terminated by either a matching end or some maximum scope. There can, however, be unmatched index range end indications; these are ignored.</p>-->
    </conbody>
</concept>
