<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="index-sorting">
    <title>Index sorting</title>
    <shortdesc> The combination of an <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> and
            <xmlelement>sort-as</xmlelement> element specifies a sort phrase under which an index
        entry  is sorted.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>This  gives an author the flexibility to sort an index entry in an index differently from
            how its text normally would be sorted. The common use for this is to disregard
            insignificant leading text, such as punctuation or words like "the" or "a". For example,
            the author might want <codeph>&lt;data&gt;</codeph> to be sorted under the letter D
            rather than the left angle bracket (&lt;). An author might want to include such an entry
            under both the punctuation heading and the letter D, in which case there can be two
            index entry directives differentiated only by the sort order. </p>
        <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="18 July 2019"><p>Comment from Dawn Stevens
                during the stage three review of proposal #253, "Indexing changes":</p><q>So .. an
                author might want to sort &lt;data> under both D and &lt;. If that was the case,
                they would need two separate indexterm elements, each with its own
                &lt;sort-as>?</q><p>I think we need to clarify the above paragraph, but I think it
                will be better done as part of a targeted review of all spec content about indexing,
                rather than as part of the review for this proposal.</p></draft-comment>
        <p>Certain languages have special sort order needs. For example, Japanese index entries
            might be written partially or wholly in kanji, but need to be sorted in phonetic order
            according to its hiragana/katakana rendition. There is no reliable automated way to map
            written to phonetic text: for kanji text, there can be multiple phonetic possibilities
            depending on the context. The only way to correctly sort Japanese index entries is to
            keep the phonetic counterparts with the written forms. The phonetic text would be
            presented as the sort order text for indexing purposes.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
