<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="index-elements">
    <title>Index elements</title>
    <shortdesc>The content of the <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements provides the text for
        the entries in a generated index. <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements can be nested
        to create secondary and tertiary index entries. </shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>indexes<indexterm>elements</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>indexes<indexterm>terminology</indexterm><indexterm>see
                        reference</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>indexes<indexterm>terminology</indexterm><indexterm>see also
                        reference</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>terminology<indexterm>indexing<indexterm>see
                        reference</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>terminology<indexterm>indexing<indexterm>see also
                        reference</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>The following elements contain information that processors use to generate indexes.</p>
        <!--<draft-comment author="Joyce Lam" time="08 August 2019"><p>I am having difficulty understanding the difference between &lt;index-see> and &lt;index-see-also> based on these descriptions. Perhaps we can provide descriptions with adequate differences?</p></draft-comment>-->
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt><xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement></dt>
                <dd>Instructs a processor to generate an index entry. The <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> and
                        <xmlatt>end</xmlatt> attributes on the <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement>
                    element can specify index ranges. If an <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement>
                    element does not contain an <xmlelement>index-see</xmlelement> or
                        <xmlelement>index-see-also</xmlelement> element, a locator is
                    generated.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt><xmlelement>index-see</xmlelement></dt>
                <dd>Instructs a processor to generate a <term>see reference</term>. See references
                    direct a reader to the preferred term.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt><xmlelement>index-see-also</xmlelement></dt>
                <dd>Instructs a processor to generate a <term>see also reference</term>. See also
                    references direct a reader to an alternate index entry for additional
                    information.</dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="21 July 2019">
            <p>Can we remove the word "typically" from the above statements?</p>
            <p>27 July 2019: I'm adding additional information here, to clarify the issues:</p>
            <ul>
                <li>Not all DITA processors support indexing</li>
                <li>Indexing is often relevant only to print-based delivery formats.</li>
                <li>AFAIK, page references are ONLY relevant to print-based delivery formats. </li>
            </ul>
            <p>I think my preference would be to have a statement clarifying the above matters at
                the start of this content, and then avoid wiggle words such as "typically."</p>
        </draft-comment>
        <draft-comment author="Eliot Kimber" time="08 August 2019">
            <p>The statements have to be qualified since the standard can't require index entries to
                use page numbers. "normally" might be better than typically.</p>
            <p>In the municipal code work I've been doing, the indexes point to section and
                paragraph numbers, not to page numbers.</p>
        </draft-comment>
        <p>How the index elements are combined, the location of <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement>
            elements, and the hierarchy of the DITA maps all effect how the index elements are
            processed and the resulting generated index entries.</p>
        <draft-comment author="Joyce Lam" time="09 August 2019">
            <p>For clarity, I recommend writing this using an unordered list.</p>
            <p>How the index elements are processed and the resulting generated index entries are
                effected by</p>
            <ul>
                <li>how the index elements are combined</li>
                <li>the location of &lt;indexterm> elements, and</li>
                <li>the hierarchy of the DITA maps.</li>
            </ul>
        </draft-comment>
    </conbody>
</concept>
