<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="indexes">
 <title>Indexes</title>
 <shortdesc>An index can be generated from index entries that occur in topic bodies, topic prologs,
  or DITA maps. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The specialized indexing domain also provides elements to enable additional indexing function,
   such as "See" and "See also". </p>
  <p>For more information, see <xref href="../../langRef/containers/indexing-d.dita"/>.</p>
  <section>
   <title>Nested <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements</title>
   <p>When <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements are nested:</p>
   <ul>
    <li>An <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element that does not contain child
      <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements, contributes a page number to the generated
     index.</li>
    <li>An <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element that contains child
      <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements, contributes to the hierarchy of the mult-level
     index entry that is generated.</li>
   </ul>
   <!--<p>In the case of nested <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements, each <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> with no <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> children (the "leaves") contributes a page number to the generated index; the ancestral <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements for each leaf <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> provide the higher levels for the multilevel entry.</p>-->
  </section>
  <section>
   <title><xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements in topic prolog or map</title>
   <p>An <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> that occurs in a topic <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement>
    is interpreted as a point reference to the title of the topic. Likewise, in a DITA map, an
     <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> that occurs in <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> inside of
    a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> is interpreted as a point reference to the title of the
    referenced topic.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title><xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements without ranges</title>
   <p>The following material applies to <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements that are not
    associated with a range:</p>
   <ul>
    <li>The index entry is generated using the content of the <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement>
     element.</li>
    <li>The index entry points to the location of the <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement>
     element.</li>
    <li>If multiple <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements exist with the same content, only a
     single index entry is generated, although all locations associated with the
      <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element contribute to the index entry.</li>
   </ul>
   <!--<p>An <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element without the <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>end</xmlatt> attribute specified is interpreted as a point reference that contributes the number of the current page to an index entry; the content of the index entry is the content of the <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element. All <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements with the same content are "merged" to form a single index entry in the resulting index, and all contributed page numbers are included in that index entry.</p>-->
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Index ranges</title>
   <p>The <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>end</xmlatt> attribute on
     <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> can be used to index an extended
    discussion<!-- that might continue over a number of pages-->. </p>
   <p>The start of a range is indicated by an <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> with a
     <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> attribute. The end of a range is indicated by one of the following:</p>
   <ul>
    <li>An <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> with an <xmlatt>end</xmlatt> attribute whose value
     matches that of the <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> attribute on the <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement>
     element that begins the range.</li>
    <li>In the absense of the <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> with an <xmlatt>end</xmlatt>
     attribute, the applicable scope boundary. The applicable scope boundary depends on the location
     of the <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element that begins the range and the DITA map
      hierarchy.<simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1* 1*">
      <sthead>
       <stentry>Location of start element</stentry>
       <stentry>Default end-of-range</stentry>
      </sthead>
      <strow>
       <stentry>In the body of a topic</stentry>
       <stentry>End of the topic body</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
       <stentry>In the topic prolog</stentry>
       <stentry>End of the topic cluster. This includes the topic that contains the
         <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element and any nested topics.</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
       <stentry>In <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element within a
         <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element</stentry>
       <stentry>The end of the DITA map.</stentry>
      </strow>
     </simpletable></li>
   </ul>
   <p>Index range indications can occur in the <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> of a
     <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> at the map level, in the prolog of a topic, or in the body of
    a topic, and are interpreted as follows (see <xref href="#indexterm/ranges" type="fig"/> for
    samples):</p>
   <ul id="ul_cyg_1pf_bbb">
    <li>In a map, the start range points to the start of the topic title of the topic being
     referenced by its containing <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>. The end range points to the end
     of the final child contained by the topic being referenced by its containing
      <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>, or to the end of the final topic referenced by the current
     map (whichever comes first). When a start and end range occur in the same
      <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement>, the range applies to the containing
      <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> and its children.</li>
    <li>In the prolog of a topic, the start range points to the start of the containing topic's
     title. The range ends with a matching index range end in the same prolog, regardless of whether
     the end range is specified. The range applies to the containing topic and all its children
     including child relationships defined in a map.</li>
    <li>In the body of a topic, the range starts where the start <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement>
     occurs and ends at the matching index range end indication within the same body, or at the end
     of the body, whichever comes first. Such an index range does not span sub-topics of the
     topic.</li>
   </ul>
  </section>
 </conbody>
 <concept id="concept_u2y_hzd_13b">
  <title>Overview of indexing elements</title>
  <shortdesc/>
  <conbody>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement></dt>
     <dd>(Unless combined with <xmlelement>index-see</xmlelement>) Instructs a processor to generate
      an index entry with a page reference. <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements can be
      nested to create secondary and tertiary index entries.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><xmlelement>index-see</xmlelement></dt>
     <dd>Instructs a processor to generate a redirection to another index entry. The redirection
      typically does not have a page reference.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><xmlelement>index-see-also</xmlelement></dt>
     <dd>Instructs a processor to generate a redirection to another index entry. Both the index
      entry and the redirection have page references.</dd>
     <dd>An <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element can contain multiple
       <xmlelement>index-see-also</xmlelement> elements.</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </conbody>
 </concept>
</concept>
