<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="information-typing">
    <title>Information typing</title>
    <shortdesc><ph conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/information-typing-shortdesc"
        /></shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>information
                        typing<indexterm>benefits</indexterm><indexterm>history</indexterm><indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>specialization<indexterm>best practices</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>topics<indexterm>information typing</indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>Information typing has a long history of use in the technical documentation field to
            improve information quality. It is based on extensive research and experience, including
            Robert Horn's Information Mapping and Hughes Aircraft's STOP (Sequential Thematic
            Organization of Proposals) technique. Note that many DITA topic types are not
            necessarily closely connected with traditional Information Mapping.</p>
        <p>Information typing is a practice designed to keep documentation focused and modular, thus
            making it clearer to readers, easier to search and navigate, and more suitable for
            reuse. Classifying information by type helps authors perform the following tasks:<ul>
                <li>Develop new information more consistently </li>
                <li>Ensure that the correct structure is used for closely related kinds of
                    information (retrieval-oriented structures like tables for reference information
                    and simple sequences of steps for task information) </li>
                <li>Avoid mixing content types, thereby losing reader focus</li>
                <li>Separate supporting concept and reference information from tasks, so that users
                    can read the supporting information if needed and ignore if it is not
                    needed</li>
                <li>Eliminate unimportant or redundant detail</li>
                <li>Identify common and reusable subject matter</li>
            </ul></p>
        <p>DITA currently defines a small set of well-established information types that reflects
            common practices in certain business domains, for example, technical communication and
            instruction and assessment. However, the set of possible information types is unbounded.
            Through the mechanism of specialization, new information types can be defined as
            specializations of the base topic type (<xmlelement>topic</xmlelement>) or as
            refinements of existing topics types, for example, <xmlelement>concept</xmlelement>,
                <xmlelement>task</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>reference</xmlelement>, or
                <xmlelement>learningContent</xmlelement>.</p>
        <p>You need not use any of the currently-defined information types. However, where a
            currently-defined information type matches the information type of your content, use the
            currently-defined information type, either directly, or as a base for specialization.
            For example, for information that is procedural in nature, use the task information type
            or a specialization of task. Consistent use of established information types helps
            ensure smooth interchange and interoperability of DITA content.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
