<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept_igf_3c4_kn">
 <title>Core concepts for working with keys</title>
 <shortdesc> The concepts described below are critical for a full understanding of keys and key
  processing.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
    <section id="section">
      <p >The use of the phases "<xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element" or
          "<xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element" should be interpreted as
          "<xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element and any specialization of
          <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element " or " <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element or
        any specialization of <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element."</p>
    </section>
  <section id="definitions">
   <title>Definitions related to keys</title>
   <dl>
    <dlentry  id="resource">
     <dt>resource</dt>
     <dd >For the purposes of keys and key resolution, one of the following:<ul>
              <li>An object addressed by URI</li>
              <li>Metadata specified on a resource, such as a <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> or
                  <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute</li>
              <li>Text or metadata located within a <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element</li>
            </ul></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="key">
     <dt>key</dt>
     <dd>A name for a resource. <ph >See <xref href="using-keys-for-addressing.dita"/>
              for more information.</ph></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="key-definition">
     <dt>key definition</dt>
     <dd>A <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element that binds one or more key names to <ph
              >zero or more</ph> resources.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="key-reference">
     <dt>key reference</dt>
     <dd>An attribute that references a key, such as <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> or
              <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt>.<!--<draft-comment author="chris.nitchie" disposition="accepted">Look for places where we talk about elements as key references to make sure we're being consistent - in some older content we referred to things like &lt;topicref> as a key reference, and need to clean it up.<p>Update April 16 2015: Kris will scan content to ensure this is complete.</p></draft-comment>--></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="key-space">
     <dt>key space</dt>
     <dd>A list of key definitions that are used to resolve key references.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="effective-key-definition">
     <dt>effective key definition</dt>
     <dd>The definition for a key within a key space that is used to resolve references to that key.
      A key might have multiple definitions within a key space, but only one of those definitions is
      effective.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="key-scope">
     <dt>key scope</dt>
     <dd>A map or section of a map that defines its own key space and serves as the resolution
      context for its key references.</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </section>
  <section id="key-definition-full">
   <title>Key definitions</title>
   <p><ph >A key definition binds one or more keys to zero or more resources. <ph
            >Resources can be:</ph></ph></p>
   <ul >
        <li>Any <ph >URI-addressed resource</ph> that is referenced directly by the
            <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute or indirectly by the <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute
            <ph >on the key definition</ph>. References to the key are
          considered references to <ph >the URI-addressed resource</ph>.</li>
        <li><ph >(If the key definition contains a child
              <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element) The child elements of the
              <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element.</ph> The content of those elements can be
          used to populate the content of elements that reference <ph >the
            key</ph>.</li>
      </ul>
   <p>If a key definition does not contain a <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element and does not
          <ph >refer to</ph> a resource by <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> or
          <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt>, it is nonetheless a valid key definition. References to the key
        definition are considered resolvable, but no linking or content <ph 
          >transclusion</ph> occurs.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="key-scope-full">
   <title>Key scopes</title>
      <p>All key definitions and key references exist within a key scope. <ph 
          >If the <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> attribute is never specified within the map hierarchy,
          all keys exist within a single, default key scope.</ph></p>
      <p><ph >Additional key scopes are created when the
            <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> attribute is used.</ph> The <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt>
        attribute specifies a name or names for the scope. Within a map hierarchy, key scopes are
        bounded by the following:</p>
   <ul id="ul_nfz_hjp_kn">
    <li>The root map.</li>
    <li>The root element of submaps <ph >when the root elements of the
            submaps</ph> specify the <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> attribute</li>
    <li>Any <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements that specify the <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt>
          attribute</li>
   </ul>
  </section>
  <section id="key-space-full">
   <title>Key spaces</title>
      <p>The key space associated with a key scope is used to resolve all key references that occur
        immediately within that scope. Key references in child scopes are resolved using the key
        spaces that are associated with those child scopes.</p>
   <p>A key scope is associated with exactly one key space. That key space contains all key
        definitions that are located directly within the scope; it <ph rev="public-review-1"
          >might</ph> also contain definitions that exist in other scopes. Specifically, the key
        space associated with a key scope is comprised of the following key definitions, in order of
        precedence:<!--Specifically, a key scope's key space is comprised of the following key definitions, in order of precedence:--></p>
   <ol id="ol_w41_rjp_kn">
    <li >All key definitions from the key space associated with the parent key scope,
          if any.<!--All key definitions from the parent key scope's key space, if any.--></li>
    <li>Key definitions within the scope-defining element, including those defined in
          directly-addressed, locally-scoped submaps, but excluding those defined in child scopes.
            <ph >(Keys defined in child scopes cannot be addressed without
            qualifiers.)</ph></li>
    <li>The key definitions from child scopes, with each key prepended by the child scope name
          followed by a period. If a child scope has multiple names, the keys in that scope are
          addressable from the parent scope using any of the scope names as a prefix.</li>
   </ol>
   <note>Because of rules 1 and 3, the key space that is associated with a child scope includes the
        scope-qualified copies of its own keys that are inherited from the key space of the parent
        scope, as well as those from other "sibling" scopes.</note>
  </section>
  <section id="effective-key-definition-full">
      <title>Effective key definitions</title>
      <p>A key space can contain many definitions for a given key, but only one definition is
        effective for the purpose of resolving key references.</p>
      <p>When a key has a definition in <!--a parent scope's key space-->the key space that is <ph
          >inherited from</ph> a parent scope, that definition is effective.
        Otherwise, a key definition is effective if it is first in a breadth-first traversal of the
        locally-scoped submaps beneath the scope-defining element. <ph >Put
          another way, a key definition is effective if it is the first definition for that key name
          in the shallowest map that contains that key definition.</ph> This allows higher-level map
        authors to override keys defined in referenced submaps.</p>
      <note>A key definition that specifies more than one key name in its <xmlatt>keys</xmlatt>
        attribute <ph rev="public-review-1">might</ph> be the effective definition for some of its
        keys but not for others.</note>
      <p>Within a key scope, keys do not have to be defined before they are referenced. The key
        space is effective for the entire scope, so the order of key definitions and key references
        relative to one another is not significant. <ph >This has the following
          implications for processors:</ph></p>
      <ul>
        <li>All key spaces for a root map must be determined before any key reference processing can
          be performed.</li>
        <li>Maps referenced solely by key reference have no bearing on key space contents.</li>
      </ul>
      <p><ph
          conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/keys-scopes-and-key-precedence-shortdesc"/>
        <ph otherprops="examples">See <xref href="example-keys-scope-defining-precedence.dita"/> for
          more information.</ph></p>
    </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
