<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="linking-and-addressing-terms">
    <title>Linking and addressing terminology</title>
    <shortdesc>Certain terminology is used for discussing linking and addressing.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <dl>
            <dlentry id="referenced-element">
                <dt>referenced element</dt>
                <dd>An element that is referenced by another DITA element. See also
                        <term>referencing element</term>.</dd>
                <dd><b>Example</b><p>Consider the following code sample from a
                            <filepath>installation-reuse.dita</filepath> topic. The
                            <xmlelement>step</xmlelement> element that it contains is a referenced
                        element; other DITA topics reference the <xmlelement>step</xmlelement>
                        element by using the <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>
                        attribute.<codeblock>&lt;step id="run-startcmd-script">
	&lt;cmd>Run the startcmd script that is applicable to your operating-system environment.&lt;/cmd>
&lt;/step></codeblock></p></dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="referencing-element">
                <dt>referencing element</dt>
                <dd>An element that references another DITA element by specifying an addressing
                    attribute. See also <term>referenced element</term> and <term>addressing
                        attribute</term></dd>
                <dd><b>Example</b><p>The following <xmlelement>step</xmlelement> element is a
                        referencing element. It uses the <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute to
                        reference a <xmlelement>step</xmlelement> element in the
                            <filepath>installation-reuse.dita</filepath>
                        topic.<codeblock>&lt;step conref="installation-reuse.dita#reuse/run-startcmd-script">
	&lt;cmd/>
&lt;/step></codeblock></p></dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>addressing attribute</dt>
                <dd>An attribute, such as <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt>,
                        <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt>, and <xmlatt>href</xmlatt>, that specifies an
                        address.<draft-comment author="robander" audience="spec-editors"
                        time="26 may 2021">Nit-picking: conkeyref / keyref do not specify an
                        address, they specify a key that can indirectly result in an address. Maybe
                        rephrase something like this, but not sure where to put the "such as" here:
                            <p>An attribute that specifies an address or a that specifies key that
                            resolves to an address.</p><p>or maybe</p><p>An attribute that specifies
                            an address or that specifies a key.</p></draft-comment></dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
    </conbody>
</concept>
