<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="links-between-maps" >
 <title><ph >Cross-deliverable addressing and linking</ph></title>
 <shortdesc>A map can use scoped keys to reference keys that are defined in a different root map.
        This cross-deliverable addressing can support the production of deliverables that contain
        working links to other deliverables.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <!--IGNORE may-must-should word-->
        <p >When maps are referenced and the value of the
                <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> attribute is set to "peer", the implications are that the two
            maps are managed in tandem, and that the author of the referencing map might have access
            to the referenced map. Adding a key scope to the reference indicates that the peer map
            should be treated as a separate deliverable for the purposes of linking.</p>
  <p>The keys that are defined by the peer map belong to <ph >any key scopes
                that are</ph> declared on the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element that
            references that map. Such keys can be referenced from content in the referencing map by
            using scope-qualified key names. However, processors handle references to keys that are
            defined in peer maps differently from how they handle references to keys that are
            defined in submaps.</p>
  <p>DITA processors are not required to resolve key references to peer maps. However, if all
            resources are available in the same processing or management context, processors have
            the potential to resolve key references to peer maps. There might be performance, scale,
            and user interface challenges in implementing such systems, but the ability to resolve
            any given reference is ensured when the source files are physically accessible.</p>
        <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="04 July 2019" audience="tc-reviewers">
            <p>Should the following statement about what processors do "when a reference to a peer
                map cannot be resolved" contain RFC-2119 language?</p>
        </draft-comment>
        <!--IGNORE may-must-should word-->
  <p>Note the inverse implication; if the peer map is not available, then it is impossible to
            resolve the key reference. Processors that resolve key references to peer maps should
            provide appropriate messages when a reference to a peer map cannot be resolved.
            Depending on how DITA resources are authored, managed, and processed, references to peer
            maps might not be resolvable at certain points in the content life cycle.</p>
  <p>The peer map might specify <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> on its root element. In that case, the
                <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> on the peer map is ignored for the purpose of resolving
            scoped key references from the referencing map. This avoids the need for processors to
            have access to the peer map in order to determine whether a given key definition comes
            from the peer map.</p>
        <example id="example-root-declares-peer" otherprops="examples">
            <title>Example: A root map that declares a peer map</title>
            <p>Consider the DITA maps <filepath>map-a.ditamap</filepath> and
                    <filepath>map-b.ditamap</filepath>. Map A designates Map B as a peer map by
                using the following markup:</p>
            <codeblock>&lt;map>
  &lt;title>Map A&lt;/title>
  &lt;topicref 
    scope="peer"
    format="ditamap"
    keyscope="map-b"
    href="../map-b/map-b.ditamap"
    processing-role="resource-only"
  />
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/map></codeblock>
            <p>In this example, <filepath>map-b.ditamap</filepath> is not a submap of Map A; it is a
                peer map.</p>
        </example>
        <example id="example-peer-keyscope" otherprops="examples">
            <title>Example: Key resolution in a peer map that contains a <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt>
                attribute on the root element</title>
            <p>Consider the map reference in map Map A:</p>
            <codeblock>&lt;mapref 
  keyscope="scope-b"
  scope="peer"  
  href="map-b.ditamap"
/> </codeblock>
            <p>where <filepath>map-b.ditamap</filepath> contains the following markup:</p>
            <codeblock>&lt;map keyscope="product-x">
 &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/map></codeblock>
            <p>From the context of Map A, key references of the form
                    <keyword>scope-b.somekey</keyword> are resolved to keys that are defined in the
                global scope of map B, but key references of the form
                    <keyword>product-x.somekey</keyword> are not. The presence of a
                    <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> attribute on the <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element
                in Map B has no effect. A key reference to the scope
                    <keyword>scope-b.somekey</keyword> is equivalent to the unscoped reference
                    <keyword>somekey</keyword> when processed in the context of Map B as the root
                map. In both cases, the presence of <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> on the root element of
                Map B has no effect; in the first case it is explicitly ignored, and in the second
                case the key reference is within the scope <keyword>product-x</keyword> and so does
                not need to be scope qualified.</p>
        </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
