<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="location-of-the-xml-lang-attribute">
    <title>Recommendations for the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt>
    attribute</title>
    <shortdesc>Specifying the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute in the
    DITA source facilitates translation and helps ensure that processors
    will handle content appropriately. Accordingly, this specification
    makes certain recommendations for best practises for where the
      <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute should be set.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
    <p>Setting the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute in the
      source-language document facilitates the translation process. It
      enables translation tools to simply change the value of the existing
        <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute to the value of the target
      language. Since some translation tools do not support adding new
      markup to the document that is being translated, if source language
      content does not set the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute, it
      might be difficult or impossible for the translator to add the
        <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute to the translated document.</p>
    <p>In addition, setting the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute in the
      DITA source ensures that processors handle content in a language- and
      locale-appropriate way. If the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute is
      not set, processors might assume a default value which is
      inappropriate for the DITA content.</p>
    <p>The following table outlines the recommended use of the
        <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute in topics and maps. These
      recommendations ensure that DITA resources have a effective default
      language.</p>
    <simpletable relcolwidth="1* 1*">
      <sthead>
        <stentry>Object</stentry>
        <stentry>Recommended use</stentry>
      </sthead>
      <strow>
        <stentry>DITA topic document that contains a single
          language</stentry>
        <stentry>Specify the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute on the
          root element of the topic.</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>DITA topic document that contains more than one
          language</stentry>
        <stentry>Specify the primary language and locale that applies to
          the topic on the highest-level element that contains content. If
          part of a topic is written in a different language, enclose that
          content in an element with the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt>
          attribute set appropriately. This
          <!--method of overriding the default document language--> applies
          to both block and inline elements that use the alternate
          language.</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>DITA map</stentry>
        <stentry>Specify the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute on the
          root element of the map. This applies both to the root map and
          any submaps.</stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>
  </conbody>
</concept>
