<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="metadata-elements" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>Metadata elements</title>
 <shortdesc>The metadata elements, many of which map to Dublin core metadata, are available in
  topics and DITA maps. This design enables authors and information architects to use identical
  metadata markup in both topics and maps.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>metadata<indexterm>cascading</indexterm><indexterm>elements</indexterm></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <conbody>
 <p>The <xmlelement>metadata</xmlelement> element is a wrapper element that contains many of the
   metadata elements. In topics, the <xmlelement>metadata</xmlelement> element is available in the
    <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement> element. In maps, the <xmlelement>metadata</xmlelement> element
   is available in the <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element. </p>
  <note>Not all metadata elements are available in the <xmlelement>metadata</xmlelement> element.
   However, they are available in either the topic <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement> element or the
   map <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element.</note>
   <p>In DITA maps, the metadata elements also are available directly in the
    <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element. Collections of metadata can be shared between DITA
   maps and topics by using the conref or keyref mechanism.</p>
   <p>In general, specifying metadata in a <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element is equivalent
   to specifying it in the <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement> element of a referenced topic. The value
   of specifying the metadata at the map level is that the topic then can be reused in other maps
   where different metadata might apply. Many items in the <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement>
   element also cascade to nested <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements within the map.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
