<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="metadata-attributes" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>Metadata attributes</title>
  <shortdesc><ph rev="review-k">M</ph>etadata attributes specify properties
    of the content that can be used to determine how the content is
    processed. Specialized metadata attributes can be defined to enable
    specific business-processing needs, such as semantic processing and
    data mining.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <p>Metadata attributes typically are used for the following purposes:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Filtering content based on the attribute values, for example, to suppress or publish
        profiled content</li>
      <li>Flagging content based on the attribute values, for example, to highlight specific content
        on output</li>
      <li>Performing custom processing, for example, to extract business-critical data and store it
        in a database</li>
    </ul>
    <p>The base DITA vocabulary includes five specializations of the
        <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attribute as domains:
        <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt><ph
        rev="review-k">,</ph>
      <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>product</xmlatt>, and
        <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt>. These five attributes are included in
      all <ph rev="review-k">the</ph> map and topic document-type shells
        <ph rev="review-k">that are</ph> provided with the
      specification.</p>
    <p>Metadata attributes fall into <ph rev="review-k">the following</ph>
      categories.</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Architectural attributes</dt>
        <dd>The <xmlatt>class</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>DITAArchVersion</xmlatt>,
          and <xmlatt>specializations</xmlatt> attributes provide metadata
          about the DITA source itself, such as what version of the grammar
          is used. These attributes are not intended for use in <ph
            rev="review-k">authored content</ph>.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Filtering and flagging attributes</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>The <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attribute and its specializations
            are intended for filtering. This includes the five
            specializations added to the OASIS document-type shells:
              <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>,
              <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>product</xmlatt>, and
              <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt>.</p>
          <p><ph rev="review-k">These</ph> attributes plus the
              <xmlatt>rev</xmlatt> attribute are intended for flagging.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Other metadata attributes</dt>
        <dd>The <xmlatt>status</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>importance</xmlatt>
          attributes, <ph rev="review-k">many of the attributes available
            on the <xmlelement>ux-window</xmlelement> element,</ph> as well
          as custom attributes specialized from <xmlatt>base</xmlatt>, are
          intended for application-specific behaviors. <ph rev="review-k"
            >Such behaviors include aiding in search and retrieval, as well
            as controlling how a user assistance window is
          rendered.</ph></dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Translation and localization attributes</dt>
        <dd>The <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>translate</xmlatt>, and <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt>
          attributes are intended for use with translating and localizing content.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
  </conbody>
</concept>
