<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="metadata-in-maps-and-topics" xml:lang="en-us"><title>Metadata in maps and topics</title>
  <shortdesc>Topic metadata can be specified in a DITA map as well as in the topics that the map
    references. By default, metadata in the map supplements or overrides metadata that is specified
    at the topic level, unless the <xmlatt>lockmeta</xmlatt> attribute of the <xmlelement
      >topicmeta</xmlelement> element is set to "no".</shortdesc><conbody>
    <section id="where-specified">
      <title><ph id="1.2">Where metadata about topics can be specified</ph></title>
      <p>Information about topics can be specified as metadata on the map, as attributes on the
          <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element, or as metadata attributes or elements in the
        topic itself:<dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>DITA map: Metadata elements</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>At the map level, properties can be set by using metadata elements. They can be set
                for an individual topic, for a set of topics, or globally for the entire document.
                The metadata elements are authored within a <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement>
                element, which associates metadata with the parent element and its children. Because
                the topics in a branch of the hierarchy typically have some common subjects or
                properties, this is a convenient mechanism to define properties for a set of topics.
                For example, the <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element in a
                  <xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement> can associate metadata with all the topics
                that are referenced in the <xmlelement>reltable</xmlelement> column.</p>
              <p>A map can override or supplement everything about a topic except its primary title
                and body content. All the metadata elements that are available in a topic also are
                available in a map. In addition, a map <ph rev="public-review-1">can</ph> provide
                alternate titles and a short description. The alternate titles can override their
                  <ph rev="public-review-1">equivalent titles</ph> in the topic. The short
                description in the map <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> override the short
                description in the topic if the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element specifies
                a <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>DITA map: Attributes of the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element</dt>
            <dd>At the map level, properties can be set as attributes of the
                <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element. </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>DITA topic</dt>
            <dd>Within a topic, authors can either set metadata attributes on the root element or
              add metadata elements in the <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement> element.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
    </section>
    <section id="topic-map-intersection">
      <title>How metadata set at both the map and topic level intersects</title>
      <p>In a topic, the metadata elements apply to the entire topic. In a map, they supplement or
        override any metadata that is provided in the referenced topics. When the same metadata
        element or attribute is specified in both a map and a topic, by default the value in the map
        takes precedence; the assumption here is that the author of the map has more knowledge of
        the reusing context than the author of the topic. The <xmlatt>lockmeta</xmlatt> attribute on
        the <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element controls whether map-specified values
        override values in the referenced topic.</p>
      <p>The <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> element is an exception to the rule of how metadata
        specified by the <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element cascades. The content of the
          <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> element is used as a navigation title only if the
          <xmlatt>locktitle</xmlatt> attribute of the parent <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
        element is set to "yes".</p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>

