<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="other-processing-attributes">
    <title>Other processing attributes</title>
    <shortdesc>Other attributes are still considered metadata on an element, but they are not
        designed for filtering or flagging.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt><xmlatt>importance</xmlatt></dt>
                <dd>The degree of priority of the content. This attribute takes a single value from
                    an enumeration. </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt><xmlatt>status</xmlatt></dt>
                <dd>The current state of the content. This attribute takes a single value from an
                    enumeration.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt><xmlatt>base</xmlatt></dt>
                <dd>A generic attribute that has no specific purpose, but is intended to act as the
                    basis for specialized attributes that have a simple value syntax like the
                    conditional processing attributes (one or more alphanumeric values separated by
                    whitespace or parenthesized groups of values).</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt><xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt></dt>
                <dd>Provides a label on one or more element instances, typically to specify a role
                    or other semantic distinction. As the <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> attribute
                    does not provide a formal type declaration or the structural consistency of
                    specialization, it should be used sparingly, usually only as a temporary measure
                    while a specialization is developed. For example,
                        <xmlelement>uicontrol</xmlelement> elements that define button labels could
                    be distinguished by adding an <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> attribute:
                    <codeblock>&lt;uicontrol outputclass="button">Cancel&lt;/uicontrol></codeblock>The
                    value of the <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> attribute can be used to trigger XSLT
                    or CSS rules, while providing a mapping to be used for future migration to a
                    more specialized set of user interface elements.</dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
    </conbody>
</concept>
