<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="processing-keyref-on-topicref">
    <title>Processing key references on <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements</title>
    <shortdesc>While <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements are used to define keys, they also
        can reference keys that are defined elsewhere. This topic explains how to evaluate key
        references on <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements and its
        specializations.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Determining the effective resource</dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>For topic references that use the <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute, the
                        effective resource bound to the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element is
                        determined by resolving all intermediate key references. Each key reference
                        is resolved either to a resource addressed directly by URI reference in an
                            <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute, or to no resource. Processors <term
                            outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> impose reasonable limits on the number
                        of intermediate key references that they will resolve. Processors <term
                            outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> support at least three levels of
                        key references.</p>
                    <note>This rule applies to all topic references, including those that define
                        keys. The effective bound resource for a key definition that uses the
                            <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute cannot be determined until the key
                        space has been constructed.</note>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Combining metadata</dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>Content from a key-defining element cascades to the key-referencing element
following the rules for combining metadata between maps and other maps and between maps and
topics.</p>
                    <p>The combined attributes and content cascade from one map to another or from a
                        map to a topic, but this is controlled by existing rules for cascading,
                        which are not affected by the use of key references.</p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <p> If, in addition to the <xmlatt>keys</xmlatt> attribute, a key definition specifies a
                <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute that can be resolved after the key resolution
            context for the key definition has been determined, the resources bound to the
            referenced key definition take precedence.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
