<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="processing-key-references">
    <title>Processing key references</title>
    <shortdesc>Key references can resolve as links, as text, or as both. Within a map, they also can
        be used to create or supplement information on a topic reference. This topic covers
        information that is common to all key processing, regardless of how the key is
        used.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <section id="processing-undefined-keys">
            <title>Processing of undefined keys</title>
            <p>If both <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attributes are specified on
                an element, the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> value <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term>
                be used as a fallback address when the key name is undefined. If both
                    <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attributes are specified
                on an element, the <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> value <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
                    >MUST</term> be used as a fallback address when the key name is undefined.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="combining-attributes">
            <title>Determining effective attributes on the key-referencing element</title>
            <p>The attributes that are common to the key-defining element and the key-referencing
element, other than the <xmlatt>keys</xmlatt>,<ph>
<xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt>,</ph> and <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attributes, are combined as for
content references, including the special processing for the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt>,
<xmlatt>dir</xmlatt>, and <xmlatt>translate</xmlatt> attributes.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="keys-and-condproc">
            <title>Keys and conditional processing</title>
            <p>The effective key definitions for a key space might be affected by conditional
                processing (filtering). Processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term>
                perform conditional processing before determining the effective key definitions.
                However, processors might determine effective key definitions before filtering.
                Consequently, different processors might produce different effective bindings for
                the same map when there are key definitions that might be filtered out based on
                their filtering attributes.</p>
            <note>In order to retain backwards compatibility with DITA 1.0 and 1.1, the
                specification does not mandate a processing order for different DITA features. This
                makes it technically possible to determine an effective key definition, resolve
                references to that key definition, and then filter out the definition. However, the
                preferred approach is to take conditional processing into account when resolving
                keys, so that key definitions which are excluded by processing are not used in
                resolving key references.</note>
        </section>
        <section id="reusing-topic-across-scopes">
            <title>Reusing a topic in multiple key scopes</title>
            <p>If a topic that contains key references is reused in multiple key scopes within a
                given root map such that its references resolve differently in each use context,
                processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> produce multiple copies of the
                source topic in resolved output for each distinct set of effective key definitions
                that are referenced by the topic. </p>
            <p>In such cases, authors can use <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> within topic
                references to specify distinct anchor components for each instance of the topic.</p>
            <p> with the <xmlatt>appid-role</xmlatt> attribute set to
                    <keyword>deliverable-anchor</keyword> to specify different source URIs for each
                reference to a topic.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="error-conditions">
            <title>Error conditions</title>
            <p>If a referencing element contains a key reference with an undefined key, it is
                processed as if there were no key reference, and the value of the
                    <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute is used as the reference. If the
                    <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute is not specified, the element is not treated as
                a navigation link. If it is an error for the element to be empty, an implementation
                    <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> give an error message; it also <term
                    outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> recover from this error condition by leaving
                the key reference element empty.</p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
