<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="processing-cascading-attributes-in-a-map">
    <title>Processing cascading attributes in a map</title>
    <shortdesc>Certain rules apply to processors when they process cascading attributes in a
        map.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>When determining the value of an attribute, processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
                >MUST</term> evaluate each attribute on each individual element in a specific order;
            this order is specified in the following list. Applications <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
                >MUST</term> continue through the list until a value is established or until the end
            of the list is reached (at which point no value is established for the attribute). In
            essence, the list provides instructions on how processors can construct a map where all
            attribute values are set and all cascading is complete.</p>
        <p>For attributes within a map, the following processing order <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
                >MUST</term> occur:<ol id="ol_6eb4fb9c-b56f-4471-bb2d-b183fef5980c">
                <li id="common-start">The <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt>
                    attributes are evaluated.</li>
                <li id="explicit-values">The explicit values specified in the document instance are
                    evaluated. For example, a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element with the
                        <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt> attribute set to "no" will use that value.</li>
                <li>The default or fixed attribute values are evaluated. For example, the
                        <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt> attribute on the <xmlelement>reltable</xmlelement>
                    element has a default value of "no".</li>
                <li id="common-end">The default values that are supplied by a controlled values file
                    are evaluated.</li>
                <li id="attributes-cascade">The attributes cascade.</li>
                <li>The processing-supplied default values are applied.</li>
                <li>After the attributes are resolved within the map, they cascade to referenced
                    maps. <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="15 May 2019"
                        audience="spec-editors">
                        <p>The following note is problematic. It contains a normative statement, but
                            we explicitly state that notes are non-normative.</p>
                        <p>Discussed at TC call on 28 May 2019.</p>
                    </draft-comment><note>The processing-supplied default values do not cascade to
                        other maps. For example, most processors will supply a default value of
                            <codeph>toc="yes"</codeph> when no <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt> attribute is
                        specified. However, a processor-supplied default of
                            <codeph>toc="yes"</codeph>
                        <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> not override a value of
                            <codeph>toc="no"</codeph> that is set on a referenced map. If the
                            <codeph>toc="yes"</codeph> value is explicitly specified, is given as a
                        default through a DTD, XSD, RNG, or controlled values file, or cascades from
                        a containing element in the map, it <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term>
                        override a <codeph>toc="no"</codeph> setting on the referenced map. See
                            <xref href="map-to-map-cascading-of-metadata.dita"/> for more
                        details.</note></li>
                <li>Repeat steps <xref href="#processing-cascading-attributes-in-a-map/common-start" type="li"/> to
                        <xref href="#processing-cascading-attributes-in-a-map/common-end" type="li"/> for each
                    referenced map.</li>
                <li>The attributes cascade within each referenced map.</li>
                <li>The processing-supplied default values are applied within each referenced
                    map.</li>
                <li>Repeat the process for maps referenced within the referenced maps.</li>
            </ol></p>
        <p>For example, in the case of <codeph>&lt;topicref toc="yes"></codeph>, applications must
            stop at item <xref href="#processing-cascading-attributes-in-a-map/explicit-values" format="dita"/> in the
            list; a value is specified for <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt> in the document instance, so
                <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt> values from containing elements will not cascade to that
            specific <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element. The <codeph>toc="yes"</codeph>
            setting on that <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element will cascade to contained
            elements, provided those elements reach item <xref
                href="#processing-cascading-attributes-in-a-map/attributes-cascade" format="dita"/> below when
            evaluating the <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt> attribute.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
