<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="purpose-of-ditamaps" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title><ph>Purpose of DITA maps</ph></title>
 <shortdesc>DITA maps enable the scalable reuse of content across multiple contexts. They can be
  used by information architects, writers, and publishers to plan, develop, and deliver
  content.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>maps<indexterm>purposes</indexterm></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <conbody>
  <p>DITA maps support the following uses:</p>
  <p>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Defining an information architecture</dt>
     <dd>Maps can be used to define the topics that are required for a particular audience, even
      before the topics themselves exist. DITA maps can aggregate multiple topics for a single
      deliverable.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Defining what topics to build for a particular output</dt>
     <dd>Maps reference topics that are included in output processing. Information architects,
      authors, and publishers can use maps to specify a set of topics that are processed at the same
      time, instead of processing each topic individually. In this way, a DITA map can serve as a
      manifest or bill of materials.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Defining navigation</dt>
     <dd>Maps can define the online navigation or table of contents for a deliverable.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Defining related links</dt>
     <dd>Maps define relationships among the topics they reference. These relationships are defined
      by the nesting of elements in the DITA map, relationship tables, and the use of elements on
      which the <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> attribute is set. On output, these relationships
      might be expressed as related links or the hierarchy of a table of contents (TOC).</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><ph>Defining an authoring context</ph></dt>
     <dd>The DITA map can define the authoring framework, providing a starting point for
      authoring new topics and integrating existing ones.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt >Defining keys and key scopes</dt>
     <dd>Maps can define keys, which provide an indirect addressing mechanism that enhances
      portability of content. The keys are defined by <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements or
      specializations of <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements, such as
       <xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement>. The <xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement> element is a convenience
      element; it is a specialized type of a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element with the
      following attributes:<ul id="ul_m24_jbq_sk">
       <li>A required <xmlatt>keys</xmlatt> attribute</li>
       <li>A <xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt> attribute with a default value of
        "resource-only".</li>
      </ul></dd>
     <dd>Maps also define the context <ph >or contexts</ph> for
      resolving key-based references, such as elements that specify the <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> or
       <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attribute. <ph >Elements within a map
       structure that specify a <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> attribute create a new context for key
       reference resolution. Key references within such elements are resolved against the set of
       effective key definitions for that scope.</ph></dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </p>
  <p>Specialized maps can provide additional semantics beyond those of organization,
   linking, and indirection. For example, the subjectScheme map specialization adds the semantics of
   taxonomy and ontology definition.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>

