<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="recognizedconstraintmechanisms" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Recognized XML-document grammar mechanisms</title>
  <abstract>
    <shortdesc product="DITA-1.3">The DITA standard recognizes the following XML-document grammar
      mechanisms by which conforming DITA vocabulary modules and document types can be constructed:
      document type declarations (DTDs), XML Schema declarations (XSDs), and RELAX NG
      grammars.</shortdesc>
    <shortdesc product="DITA-2.0">Conforming DITA document types and vocabulary modules can be
      constructed using several XML document-grammar mechanisms. The DITA specification provides
      coding requirements for DTDs and RNG; it also includes grammar files constructed using those
      mechanisms.</shortdesc>
  </abstract>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>grammar mechanisms supported</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p product="DITA-1.3">This specification defines implementation requirements for all of these
      document grammar mechanisms. The OASIS DITA Technical Committee recognizes that other XML
      grammar languages might provide similar modularity and extensibility mechanisms. However,
      because the Technical Committee has not yet defined implementation requirements for those
      languages, their conformance cannot be determined.</p>
    <p>Of these document-grammar mechanisms, RELAX NG grammars offer the easiest-to-use syntax and
      the most precise constraints. For this reason, the RELAX NG definitions of the standard DITA
      vocabularies are the normative versions.<ph product="DITA-1.3"> The DTD and XSD versions
        shipped by OASIS are generated from the RELAX NG version using open source tools.</ph></p>
  </conbody>
</concept>

