<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="relax-ng-structural-module-coding-requirements">
  <title>RELAX NG: Coding requirements for structural modules</title>
  <shortdesc>A structural vocabulary module defines a new topic or map type as a specialization of a
    topic or map type.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>coding requirements<indexterm>RNG<indexterm>structural
            modules</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>RNG<indexterm>coding requirements<indexterm>structural
            modules</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>topic nesting<indexterm>controlling</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>topic nesting<indexterm>disabling</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <section id="architectural-attributes">
      <title>Required topic and map element attributes</title>
      <p>The topic or map element type references the <codeph>arch-atts</codeph> pattern, which
        defines the <xmlatt>DITAArchVersion</xmlatt> attribute in the DITA architecture namespace
        and sets the attribute to the version of DITA. In addition, the topic or map element type
        references the <codeph>specializations-att</codeph> pattern, which pulls in a definition for
        the <xmlatt>specializations</xmlatt> attribute.</p>
      <div otherprops="examples">
        <p>For example, the following definition references the <codeph>arch-atts</codeph> and
            <codeph>specializations-att</codeph> patterns as part of the definition for the
            <xmlelement>concept</xmlelement> element.</p>
        <codeblock base="ci-xml">&lt;div&gt;
  &lt;a:documentation&gt; LONG NAME: Concept &lt;/a:documentation&gt;
  &lt;!-- ... -->
  &lt;define name="concept.attlist" combine="interleave"&gt;
    &lt;ref name="concept.attributes"/&gt;
    <b>&lt;ref name="arch-atts"/&gt;
    &lt;ref name="specializations-att"/&gt;</b>
  &lt;/define&gt;
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/div>
</codeblock>
      </div>
      <p>The <xmlatt>DITAArchVersion</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>specializations</xmlatt> attributes give
        processors a reliable way to check the DITA version and the attribute domains that are
        used.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="topic-nesting">
      <title>Controlling nesting in topic types</title>
      <p><ph rev="2.0">A structural module that defines a new topic
          type</ph> typically defines an <codeph>info-types</codeph> style
        pattern to specify a default for what topic types are permitted to
        nest. Document-type shells then can control how topics are allowed
        to nest by redefining the pattern. </p>
      <p>The following rules apply when using a pattern to control topic
        nesting.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Pattern name</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>The pattern name is the topic element name plus the suffix
                <codeph>-info-types</codeph>.</p>
            <p otherprops="examples">For example, the info-types pattern for the concept topic type
              is <codeph>concept-info-types</codeph>.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Pattern value</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>To set up default topic-nesting rules, set the pattern to the desired topic elements.
              The default topic nesting is used when a document-type shell does not set up different
              rules.</p>
            <div otherprops="examples">
              <p>For example:</p>
              <codeblock base="ci-xml">&lt;div>
  &lt;a:documentation>INFO TYPES PATTERNS&lt;/a:documentation>
  &lt;define name="mytopic-info-types">
    &lt;ref name="subtopictype-01.element"/>
    &lt;ref name="subtopictype-02.element"/>
  &lt;/define>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/div></codeblock>
            </div>
            <p>To disable topic nesting, specify the <xmlelement>empty</xmlelement> element.</p>
            <div otherprops="examples">
              <p>For example:</p>
              <codeblock base="ci-xml">&lt;define name="learningAssessment-info-types"&gt;
  &lt;empty/&gt;
&lt;/define&gt;</codeblock>
            </div>
            <p>The <codeph>info-types</codeph> pattern also can be used to refer to common nesting
              rules across the document-type shell.</p>
            <div otherprops="examples">
              <p>For example:</p>
              <codeblock base="ci-xml">&lt;div>
  &lt;a:documentation>INFO TYPES PATTERNS&lt;/a:documentation>
  &lt;define name="mytopic-info-types">
    &lt;ref name="info-types"/>
  &lt;/define>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/div></codeblock>
            </div>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Content model of the root element</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>In the declaration of the root element of a topic type, the last position in the
              content model is the <codeph><varname>topictype</varname>-info-types</codeph>
              pattern.</p>
            <div otherprops="examples">
              <p>For example, the <xmlelement>concept</xmlelement> element places the pattern after
                  <xmlelement>related-links</xmlelement>:</p>
              <codeblock base="ci-xml">&lt;div>
  &lt;a:documentation>LONG NAME: Concept&lt;/a:documentation>
  &lt;define name="concept.content">
    &lt;!-- ... -->
    &lt;optional>
      &lt;ref name="related-links"/>
    &lt;/optional>
    &lt;zeroOrMore>
      &lt;ref name="concept-info-types"/>
    &lt;/zeroOrMore>
  &lt;/define>
&lt;/div></codeblock>
            </div>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <p>In certain cases, you do not need to use the <codeph>info-types</codeph> pattern to control
        topic nesting:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>If a topic type will never permit topic nesting, regardless of context, it can be
          defined without any pattern or any nested topics.</li>
        <li>If a topic type will allow only specific nesting patterns, such
          as allowing only other topic types that are defined in the same
          module, it can nest those topics directly in the same way that
          other nested elements are defined.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
