<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 2.x Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept_yvl_ncv_dn">
 <title>RELAX NG: Coding requirements for structural and element-domain
    modules</title>
  <shortdesc>This topic covers general coding requirements for defining
    element types in both structural and element-domain vocabulary
    modules.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
    <section id="files">
      <title>Module files</title>
      <p>Each RELAX NG vocabulary module consists of a single module file.</p>
    </section>
  <section id="element-definitions">
      <title>Element definitions</title>
      <p>A structural or element-domain vocabulary module contains a declaration for each element
        type that is named in the module. While the XML standard allows content models to refer to
        undeclared element types, the DITA standard does not permit it. All element types or
        attribute lists that are named in a vocabulary module are declared in one of the following
        objects:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>The vocabulary module</li>
        <li>A base module of which the vocabulary module is a direct or indirect specialization</li>
        <li>(If the vocabulary module is a structural module) A required domain or structural
          module</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The element type patterns are organized into the following sections:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Element type name patterns</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>For each element type that is declared in the vocabulary module, there is a pattern
              whose name is the element type name and whose content is a reference to the
              element-type <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.element</codeph> pattern.</p>
            <example>
              <p>The following example shows the pattern for the
                  <xmlelement>b</xmlelement> element:</p>
              <codeblock>&lt;div>
  &lt;a:documentation>ELEMENT TYPE NAME PATTERNS&lt;/a:documentation>
    &lt;!-- ... -->
    <b>&lt;define name="b">
      &lt;ref name="b.element"/>
    &lt;/define></b>
    &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/div></codeblock>
            </example>
            <p>The element-type name pattern provides a layer of abstraction that facilitates
              redefinition. The element-type name patterns are referenced from content model and
              domain extension patterns. Specialization modules can re-declare the patterns to
              include specializations of the type, allowing the specialized types in all contexts
              where the base type is allowed.</p>
            <p>The declarations can occur in any order.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Common content-model patterns</dt>
          <dd>Structural and element-domain modules can include a section that defines the patterns
            that contribute to the content models of the element types that are defined in the
            module.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Common attribute sets</dt>
          <dd>Structural and element-domain modules can include a section that defines patterns for
            attribute sets that are common to one or more of the element types that are defined in
            the module.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Element type declarations</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>For each element type that is declared in the vocabulary module, the following set of
              patterns are used to define the content model and attributes for the element type.
              Each set of patterns typically is grouped within a <xmlelement>div</xmlelement>
              element.</p>
            <dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.content</codeph></dt>
                <dd>Defines the complete content model for the element <varname>tagname</varname>.
                  The content model pattern can be overridden in <ph rev="2.0">element-configuration
                    modules (constraint and expansion)</ph>.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.attributes</codeph></dt>
                <dd>Defines the complete attribute list for the element <varname>tagname</varname>,
                  except for <xmlatt>class</xmlatt>. The attribute list declaration can be
                  overridden in <ph rev="2.0">element-configuration modules (constraint and
                    expansion)</ph>.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.element</codeph></dt>
                <dd>Provides the actual element-type definition. It contains an
                    <xmlelement>element</xmlelement> element whose <xmlatt>name</xmlatt> value is
                  the element type name and whose content is a reference to the
                      <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.content</codeph> and
                      <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.attlist</codeph>
                  patterns.<!-- In OASIS grammar files, the <xmlatt>longName</xmlatt> attribute in the DITA architecture namespace is also used to help enable generation of DTD and XSD grammar files.--><!--<draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="07 April 2021"><p>Are we removing the stuff for generating DTD and XSD from the RNG?</p></draft-comment>--></dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.attlist</codeph></dt>
                <dd>An additional attribute-list pattern with a <xmlatt>combine</xmlatt> attribute
                  set to the value <keyword>interleave</keyword>. This pattern contains only a
                  reference to the <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.attributes</codeph>
                  pattern.</dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl>
            <example>
              <p>The following example shows the declaration for the
                  <xmlelement>topichead</xmlelement> element, including the definition for each
                pattern described above.</p>
              <codeblock>    &lt;div>
      &lt;a:documentation>Topic Head&lt;/a:documentation>
      <b>&lt;define name="topichead.content"></b>
        &lt;optional>
          &lt;ref name="topicmeta"/>
        &lt;/optional>
        &lt;zeroOrMore>
          &lt;choice>
            &lt;ref name="data.elements.incl"/>
            &lt;ref name="navref"/>
            &lt;ref name="topicref"/>
          &lt;/choice>
        &lt;/zeroOrMore>
      &lt;/define>
      <b>&lt;define name="topichead.attributes">
</b>        &lt;optional>
          &lt;attribute name="keys"/>
        &lt;/optional>
        &lt;ref name="topicref-atts"/>
        &lt;ref name="univ-atts"/>
      &lt;/define>
      <b>&lt;define name="topichead.element"></b>
        &lt;element name="topichead">
          &lt;a:documentation/>
          &lt;ref name="topichead.attlist"/>
          &lt;ref name="topichead.content"/>
        &lt;/element>
      &lt;/define>
      <b>&lt;define name="topichead.attlist" combine="interleave">
</b>        &lt;ref name="topichead.attributes"/>
      &lt;/define>

    &lt;/div></codeblock>
            </example>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>idElements pattern contribution</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>Element types that declare the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute as type "ID", including
              all topic and map element types, provide a declaration for the
                <codeph>idElements</codeph> pattern. This is required to correctly configure the
                <keyword>any</keyword> pattern override in document-type shells and avoid errors
              from RELAX NG parsers. The declaration is specified with a <xmlatt>combine</xmlatt>
              attribute set to the value <keyword>choice</keyword>.</p>
            <div rev="2.0">
              <p> For example:</p>
              <codeblock>&lt;div>
  &lt;a:documentation>LONG NAME: Map&lt;/a:documentation>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
  &lt;define name="idElements" combine="choice">
    &lt;ref name="map.element"/>
  &lt;/define>
&lt;/div></codeblock>
            </div>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Specialization attribute declarations</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>A vocabulary module must define a <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute for every
              specialized element. This is done in a section at the end of each module that includes
              a <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.attlist</codeph> pattern for each element type
              that is defined in the module. The declarations can occur in any order.</p>
            <p>The <codeph><varname>tagname</varname>.attlist</codeph>
              pattern for each element defines the value for the
                <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute for the element.
                <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> is declared as an optional
              attribute. The default value is declared using the
                <xmlatt>a:defaultValue</xmlatt> attribute, and the value of
              the attribute is constructed according to the rules in <xref
                href="specialization-class-attribute.dita"/>.</p>
            <p otherprops="examples">For
              example:<codeblock>&lt;define name="topichead.attlist" combine="interleave">
  &lt;optional>
    &lt;attribute name="class" 
        a:defaultValue="+ map/topicref mapgroup-d/topichead "
    />
  &lt;/optional>
&lt;/define></codeblock></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
