<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="rng-requirements-overview">
 <title>RELAX NG: Overview of coding requirements</title>
 <shortdesc><ph rev="review-q">Domain modules coded in RELAX NG</ph> are
    self-integrating; they automatically add to the content models and
    attribute lists that they extend. This means that <ph rev="review-q"
      >DITA</ph> architects <ph>have less</ph> work to do when integrating
      <ph rev="review-q">domain</ph> modules into document-type
    shells.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>coding
     requirements<indexterm>RNG<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>RNG<indexterm>coding
     requirements<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <conbody>
    <section>
      <title rev="review-q">General RELAX NG practices</title>
      <p>In addition to simplifying document-type shells, the
        self-integrating aspect of RELAX NG results in the following coding
        practices:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Each specialization module consists of a single file, unlike
          the two required for DTDs.</li>
        <li>Domain modules are <ph rev="review-q">self-integrating.
            They</ph> directly extend elements, unlike DTDs, which rely on
          an extra file and extensions within the document-type shell.</li>
        <li rev="2.0">Element-configuration modules (constraint and
          expansion) directly include the modules that they extend, which
          means that just by referencing an element-configuration module,
          the document-type shell gets everything it needs to redefine a
          vocabulary module.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>RELAX NG grammars for DITA document-type shells, vocabulary
        modules, and <ph rev="2.0">element-configuration modules
          (constraint and expansion) </ph>
        <ph rev="review-q">can</ph> do the following:<ul>
          <li>Use the <xmlelement>a:documentation</xmlelement> element
            anywhere that foreign elements are allowed by RELAX NG. The
              <xmlelement>a:documentation</xmlelement> element refers to
            the <xmlelement>documentation</xmlelement> element type from
            the
              <xmlnsname>http://relaxng.org/ns/compatibility/annotations/1.0</xmlnsname>
            as defined by the DTD compatibility specification. The prefix
            "a" is used by convention.</li>
          <li>Use <xmlelement>div</xmlelement> to group pattern
            declarations.</li>
          <li>Include embedded Schematron rules or any other foreign
            vocabulary. Processors can ignore any foreign vocabularies
            within DITA grammars that are not in the
              <xmlnsname>http://relaxng.org/ns/compatibility/annotations/1.0</xmlnsname>
            or
              <xmlnsname>http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/</xmlnsname>
            namespaces.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  <section id="complex-vs-xml-syntax">
   <title>Syntax for RELAX NG grammars</title>
   <p>The RELAX NG specification defines two syntaxes for RELAX NG grammars: the XML syntax and the
    compact syntax. The two syntaxes are functionally equivalent, and either syntax can be reliably
    converted into the other by using, for example, the open-source Trang tool. </p>
   <p>DITA practitioners can author DITA modules using one RELAX NG syntax, and then use tools to
    generate modules in the other syntax. The resulting RELAX NG modules are conforming if there is
    a one-to-one file correspondence. </p>
   <p>Conforming RELAX NG-based DITA modules can omit the annotations and
        foreign elements that are used in the OASIS grammar files to enable
        generation of other XML grammars, such as DTDs and XML Schema. When
        such annotations are used, conversion from one RELAX NG syntax to
        the other might lose the information, as processors are not
        required to process the annotations and information from foreign
        vocabularies. </p>
   <p>The DITA coding requirements are defined for the RELAX NG XML syntax.
          <ph rev="review-p">Document-type</ph> shells, vocabulary modules,
        and <ph rev="2.0">element-configuration modules (constraints and
          expansion)</ph> that use the RELAX NG compact syntax can use the
        same organization requirements as those defined for the RELAX NG
        XML syntax. </p>
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
