<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="relax-ng-attribute-domain-module-coding-requirements" >
 <title>RELAX NG: Coding requirements for attribute-domain modules</title>
  <shortdesc>An attribute-domain vocabulary module declares a new attribute specialized from either
    the <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>base</xmlatt> attribute.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
    <p conkeyref="reuse-general/rng-attribute-domain-name"/>
   <p>An attribute-domain module consists of a single file, which has three sections:</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Specializations attribute contribution</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>The contribution to the <xmlatt>specializations</xmlatt> attribute is documented in the
            module. The value is constructed according to the rules found in <xref
              href="specialization-specializations-attribute.dita"/>.</p>
          <p>The OASIS grammar files use a <xmlelement>domainsContribution</xmlelement> element to
            document the contribution; this element is used to help enable generation of DTD and XSD
            grammar files. An XML comment or <xmlelement>a:documentation</xmlelement> element also
            can be used.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Attribute declaration pattern</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>The specialized attribute is declared in a pattern named
                <codeph><varname>domainName</varname>-d-attribute</codeph>. The attribute is defined
            as optional.</p>
          <div otherprops="examples">
            <p>For example, the following code samples shows the the <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>
              specialization of <xmlatt>props</xmlatt>:</p>
            <codeblock>&lt;define name="audienceAtt-d-attribute">
  &lt;optional>
    &lt;attribute name="audience" dita:since="2.0">
      &lt;a:documentation>Specifies the audience to which an element applies.&lt;/a:documentation>
    &lt;/attribute>
  &lt;/optional>    
&lt;/define></codeblock>
          </div>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Attribute extension pattern</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>The attribute extension pattern extends either the <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> or
              <xmlatt>base</xmlatt> attribute set pattern to include the attribute
            specialization.</p>
          <dl>
            <dlentry>
              <dt>Specializations of <xmlatt>props</xmlatt></dt>
              <dd>
                <p>The pattern is named <codeph>props-attribute-extensions</codeph>. The pattern
                  specifies a <xmlatt>combine</xmlatt> value of <keyword>interleave</keyword>, and
                  the content of the pattern is a reference to the specialized-attribute declaration
                  pattern.</p>
                <div otherprops="examples">
                  <p>For example:</p>
                  <codeblock>&lt;define name="props-attribute-extensions" combine="interleave">
  &lt;ref name="audienceAtt-d-attribute"/>
&lt;/define></codeblock>
                </div>
              </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
              <dt>Specializations of <xmlatt>base</xmlatt></dt>
              <dd>
                <p>The pattern is named <codeph>base-attribute-extensions</codeph>. The pattern
                  specifies a <xmlatt>combine</xmlatt> value of <keyword>interleave</keyword>, and
                  the content of the pattern is a reference to the specialized-attribute declaration
                  pattern.</p>
                <div otherprops="examples">
                  <p>For example:</p>
                  <codeblock>&lt;define name="base-attribute-extensions" combine="interleave">
    &lt;ref name="myBaseSpecializationAtt-d-attribute"/>
&lt;/define></codeblock>
                </div>
              </dd>
            </dlentry>
          </dl>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
 </conbody>
</concept>
