<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="rng_adding_an_attribute_to_certain_table_elements">
    <title>Example: Adding an attribute to certain table elements using RNG</title>
    <shortdesc>In this scenario, a company makes extensive use of complex tables to present product
        listings. They occasionally highlight individual cells, rows, or columns for various
        purposes. The DITA architect wants to implement a semantically meaningful way to identify
        the purpose of various table elements.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>expansion modules<indexterm>examples<indexterm>expanding attributes for
                            an element</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>examples<indexterm>expansion modules<indexterm>expanding attributes for
                            an element</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>The DITA architect decides to create a new attribute (<xmlatt>cell-purpose</xmlatt>) and
            add it to the content model of the following elements:</p>
        <ul>
            <li><xmlelement>entry</xmlelement></li>
            <li><xmlelement>row</xmlelement></li>
            <li><xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement></li>
            <li><xmlelement>stentry</xmlelement></li>
            <li><xmlelement>strow</xmlelement></li>
        </ul>
        <p>The new attribute will be specialized from <xmlatt>base</xmlatt>; it will have a small
            set of tokens that can be values for the new attribute.</p>
        <ol>
            <li>
                <p>The DITA architect creates an attribute-domain specialization module:
                        <filepath>acme-cellPurposeAttExpansion.rng</filepath>. It contains the
                    following code:</p>
                <codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:vocabularyModuleDesc.rng"
                         schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
&lt;grammar 
  xmlns="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"
  xmlns:a="http://relaxng.org/ns/compatibility/annotations/1.0"
  xmlns:dita="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
  datatypeLibrary="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-datatypes">

  &lt;define name="cellPurposeAtt-d-attribute-expansion">
    &lt;optional>
      &lt;attribute name="cellPurpose">
        &lt;a:documentation>Specifies the purpose of the table cell. This is a specialized
                         attribute for Acme Corporation.
        &lt;/a:documentation>
        &lt;choice>
          &lt;value>sale&lt;/value>
          &lt;value>out-of-stock&lt;/value>
          &lt;value>new&lt;/value>
          &lt;value>last-chance&lt;/value>
          &lt;value>inherit&lt;/value>
          &lt;value>none&lt;/value>
        &lt;/choice>
      &lt;/attribute>
    &lt;/optional>    
  &lt;/define>
  
  &lt;define name="base-attribute-extensions" combine="interleave">
    &lt;ref name="cellPurposeAtt-d-attribute-expansion"/>
  &lt;/define>
  
&lt;/grammar></codeblock>
                <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="20 April 2021">
                    <p>Where does the application of this new attribute to only certain elements
                        take place?</p>
                </draft-comment>
            </li>
            <li>Integrate expansion module into the doc-type shell.</li>
            <li>Update <filepath>catalog.xml</filepath> file.</li>
        </ol>
    </conbody>
</concept>
