<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept_vrp_lzb_wr">
 <title>Rules for document-type shells</title>
 <shortdesc>This topic collects the rules that concern DITA document-type shells.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>While the DITA specification only defines coding requirements for DTD, RELAX NG, and XML
          Schema documents, conforming DITA documents <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> use
          other document-type constraint languages, such as Schematron.</p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>With two exceptions, a document-type shell <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST NOT</term>
          directly define element or attribute types; it only includes and configures vocabulary and
          constraint modules. The exceptions to this rule are the following:<ul>
            <li>The ditabase document-type shell directly defines the <xmlelement>dita</xmlelement>
              element.</li>
            <li>RNG- and XML Schema-based shells directly specify values for the
                <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> attribute; these values reflect the details of the domains
              and structural types that are integrated by the document-type shell.</li>
          </ul></p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>Document type shells that are not provided by OASIS <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
            >MUST</term> have a unique public identifier, if public identifiers are used.</p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>Document type shells that are not provided by OASIS <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
            >MUST NOT</term> indicate OASIS as the owner; the public identifier or
          URN for such document-type shells <term outputclass="RFC-2119" 
            >SHOULD</term> reflect the owner or creator of the document-type shell. </p>
        <p otherprops="examples">For example, if example.com creates a copy of the document type
          shell for topic, an appropriate public identifier would be "-//example.com//DTD DITA
          Topic//EN", where "example.com" is the owner identifier component of the public
          identifier. An appropriate URN would be "urn:example.com:names:dita:rng:topic.rng".</p>
      </li>
    </ul>
 </conbody>
</concept>
