<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="single_sourcing" xml:lang="en-US">
 <title>Producing different deliverables from a single source</title>
 <shortdesc>DITA is designed to enable the production of multiple deliverable formats from a single
  set of DITA content. This means that many rendition details are specified neither in the DITA
  specification nor in the DITA content; the rendition details are defined and controlled by the
  processors.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>formatting<indexterm>processing expectations</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>processing expectations<indexterm>formatting</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>single sourcing</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
 <conbody>
  <p>Like many XML-based applications for human-readable documentation, DITA supports the separation
   of content from presentation. This is necessary when content is used in different contexts, since
   authors cannot predict how or where the material that they author will be used. The following
   features and mechanisms enable users to produce different deliverable formats from a
   single source:<dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>DITA maps</dt>
     <dd>Different DITA maps can be optimized for different delivery formats. For example, you might
      have a book map for printed output and another DITA map to generate online help; each map uses
      the same content set.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Specialization</dt>
     <dd >The DITA specialization facility enables users to create XML elements that
      can provide appropriate rendition distinctions. Because the use of specializations does not
      impede interchange or interoperability, DITA users can safely create the specializations that
      are demanded by their local delivery and rendition requirements, with a minimum of additional
      impact on the systems and business processes that depend on or use the content. While general
      XML practices suggest that element types should be semantic, specialization can be used to
      define element types that are purely presentational in nature. The highlighting domain is an
      example of such a specialization.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Conditional processing</dt>
     <dd>Conditional processing makes it possible to have a DITA topic or map that contains
            delivery-specific content.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Content referencing</dt>
     <dd>The conref mechanism makes it possible to construct delivery-specific maps or topics from a
      combination of generic components and delivery-context-specific components.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Key referencing</dt>
     <dd >The keyref mechanism makes it possible to have key words be displayed
      differently in different deliverables. It also allows a single link to resolve to different
      targets in different deliverables.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> attribute</dt>
     <dd>The <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> attribute provides a mechanism whereby authors can
      indicate specific rendition intent where necessary. Note that the DITA specification does not
      define any values for the <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> attribute; the use of the
       <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> attribute is processor specific.</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl></p>
  <p>While DITA is independent of any particular delivery format, it is a standard that supports the
   creation of human-readable content. As such, it defines some fundamental document components
   including paragraphs, lists, and tables. When there is a reasonable expectation that such basic
   document components be rendered consistently, the DITA specification defines default or suggested
   renderings.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>

