<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="sort-as-processing" >
 <title>Sorting</title>
 <shortdesc>Processors can be configured to sort elements. Typical processing includes sorting
  glossary entries, index entries, lists of parameters or reference entries in custom navigation
  structures, and tables based on the contents of cells in specific columns or rows.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>base sort phrase</indexterm>
    <indexterm>collation</indexterm>
    <indexterm>definitions<indexterm>base sort phrase</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>examples<indexterm>effective sort phrase</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>effective sort phrase</indexterm>
    <indexterm>grouping</indexterm>
    <indexterm>processing<indexterm>sorting</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>processing expectations<indexterm>base sort phrase, documentation
     of</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>sorting</indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <conbody>
  <p>Each element to be sorted must have some inherent text on which it will be sorted. This text is
   the <term>base sort phrase</term> for the element. For elements that have titles, the base sort
   phrase usually is the content of the <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element. For elements that do
   not have titles, the base sort phrase might be literal content in the DITA source, or it might be
   generated or constructed based on the semantics of the element involved; for example, it could be
   constructed from various attribute or metadata values.</p>
  <p>Processors that perform sorting <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> explicitly document
   how the base sort phrase is determined for a given element.</p>
  <p>The <xmlelement>sort-as</xmlelement> element can be used to specify an effective sort phrase
   when the base sort phrase is not appropriate for sorting. For index terms, the
    <xmlelement>sort-as</xmlelement> element  specifies the effective sort phrase for an index
   entry.</p>
  <p>The details of sorting and grouping are implementation specific. Processors might provide
   different mechanisms for defining or configuring collation and grouping details. Even where the
    <xmlelement>sort-as</xmlelement> element is specified, two processors might produce different
   sorted and grouped results because they might use different collation and grouping rules. For
   example, one processor might be configured to sort English terms before non-English terms, while
   another might be configured to sort them after. The grouping and sorting of content is subject to
   local editorial rules. </p>
  <p conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/sort-as-1" />
  <p conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/sort-as-2" />
 </conbody>
</concept>
