<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="modularization">
 <title>Modularization</title>
 <shortdesc>Modularization is at the core of DITA design and implementation. It enables reuse and
  extension of the DITA specialization hierarchy.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>modularization<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>specialization<indexterm>benefits</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>specialization<indexterm>modularization</indexterm></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <conbody>
  <p>The DITA XML grammar files are a set of module files that declare the markup and entities that
   are required for each specialization. The document-type shell then integrates the modules that
   are needed for a particular authoring and publishing context.</p>
  <p>Because all the pieces are modular, the task of developing a new
      information type or domain is <ph rev="review-p">simplified</ph>. An
      information architect can start with existing base types (topic or
      map)—or with an existing specialization if it comes close to matching
      their business requirements—and only develop an extension that adds
      the extra semantics or functionality that is required. A
      specialization reuses elements from ancestor modules, but it only
      needs to declare the elements and attributes that are unique to the
      specialization. This saves considerable time and effort, reduces
      error, enforces consistency, and makes interoperability possible.</p>
  <p>Because all the pieces are modular, it is <ph rev="review-p"
        >simpler</ph> to reuse different modules in different contexts.</p>
  <p otherprops="examples">For example, a company that produces machines
      can use the hazard statement domain, while a company that produces
      software can use the software, user interface, and programming
      domains. A company that produces health information for consumers can
      avoid using the standard domains<ph rev="review-p">. I</ph>nstead, it
      develops a new domain that contains the elements necessary for
      capturing and tracking the comments made by medical professionals who
      review information for accuracy and completeness.</p>
  <p>Because all the pieces are modular, new modules can be created and put into use without
   affecting existing document-type shells. </p>
  <p otherprops="examples">For example, a marketing division of a company can develop a new
   specialization for message campaigns and have their content authors begin using that
   specialization, without affecting any of the other information types that they have in place.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
