<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept
  id="vocabularymodules" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Vocabulary modules</title>
  <shortdesc><!--Vocabulary modules are units of XML vocabulary definition. -->A DITA element type
    or attribute is declared in exactly one vocabulary module.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <!--<p>A given vocabulary module exists in an exclusive hierarchy relative to its ancestor modules. For example, the <xmlelement>concept</xmlelement> topic type is defined in the concept topic module and is itself derived from the topic topic module (that is, the topic-defining structural module that defines the topic type <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement>). Likewise, the <xmlelement>task</xmlelement> topic type is defined in the task topic module and is derived from the <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> topic type. Thus the concept and task topic types are children of the <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> topic type in the module hierarchy rooted at the <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> topic vocabulary module.</p>-->
    <p>The following terminology is used to refer to DITA vocabulary modules:</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>structural module</dt>
        <dd>A vocabulary module that defines a top-level map or topic type. Structural modules also
          can define specializations of, or reuse elements from, domain or other structural modules.
          When this happens, the structural module becomes dependent.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <!--<dlentry><dt>topic vocabulary module</dt><dd>A <ph rev="targeted-review">structural</ph> module that defines a single, top-level topic type that is<ph rev="targeted-review"> utlimately</ph> specialized from <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement>. It also can define new elements that are intended for use within the new topic specialization.</dd></dlentry><dlentry><dt>map vocabulary module</dt><dd>A vocabulary module that defines a single element type that is specialized from <xmlelement>map</xmlelement>. It also can define new elements that are intended for use within the new map specialization.</dd></dlentry>-->
      <dlentry>
        <dt>element domain module</dt>
        <dd>A vocabulary module that defines one or more specialized element types that can be
          integrated with maps or topics.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>attribute domain module</dt>
        <dd>A vocabulary module that defines exactly one specialization of either the
            <xmlatt>base</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attribute.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <p>For structural types, the module name is typically the same as the root element. For example,
      "task" is the name of the structural vocabulary module whose root element is
        <xmlelement>task</xmlelement>.</p>
    <p>For element domain modules, the module name is typically a name that reflects the subject
      domain to which the domain applies, such as "highlight" or "software". Domain modules often
      have an associated short name, such as <keyword>hi-d</keyword> for the highlighting domain or
        <keyword>sw-d</keyword> for the software domain.</p>
    <p>The name (or short name) of an element domain module is used to identify the module in
        <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> attribute values. While module names
      need not be globally unique, module names must be unique within the scope of a given
      specialization hierarchy. The short name must be a valid XML name token. </p>
    <p>Structural modules based on topic <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> define additional
      topic types that are then allowed to occur as subordinate topics within the top-level topic.
      However, such subordinate topic types <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY NOT</term> be used as
      the root elements of conforming DITA documents.</p>
    <p>For example, a top-level topic type might require the use of subordinate topic types that
      would only ever be meaningful in the context of their containing type and thus would never be
      candidates for standalone authoring or aggregation using maps. In that case, the subordinate
      topic type can be declared in the module for the top-level topic type that uses it. However,
      in most cases, potential subordinate topics are best defined in their own vocabulary
      modules.</p>
    <p>Domain elements intended for use in topics <term outputclass="RFC-2119" 
        >MUST</term> ultimately be specialized from elements that are defined in the topic module.
      Domain elements intended for use in maps <term outputclass="RFC-2119" 
        >MUST</term> ultimately be specialized from elements defined by or used in the map module.
      Maps share some element types with topics but no map-specific elements can be used within
      topics.</p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
