<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="specialization-rules-elements" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Specialization rules for element types</title>
  <shortdesc>There are certain rules that apply to element type specializations.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>design and implementation rules<indexterm>element types</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>specialization<indexterm>rules<indexterm>element
          types</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>A specialized element type has the following characteristics:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>A properly-formed <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute that specifies the specialization
        hierarchy of the element</li>
      <li>A content model that is the same or less inclusive than that of the element from which it
        was specialized</li>
      <li>A set of attributes that are the same or a subset of those of the element from which it
        was specialized</li>
      <li>Values or value ranges of attributes that are the same or a subset of those of the element
        from which it was specialized</li>
    </ul>
    <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="14 May 2021">
      <p>OK, what verbiage do we want to add here to cover what we permit with expansion
        modules?</p>
      <p>Suggestions from Chris Nitchie:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Modify the 2nd bullet point to add "... after generalization. Specializations of
          elements from the base element's content model are allowed, so long as they are only
          allowed in the same location in the content model as the elements from which they are
          specialized."</li>
        <li>Modify the 3rd bullet point to add ""... except for specializations of @props or
          @base."</li>
      </ul>
    </draft-comment>
    <p>DITA elements are never in a namespace. Only the <xmlatt>DITAArchVersion</xmlatt> attribute
      is in a DITA-defined namespace. All other attributes, except for those defined by the XML
      standard, are in no namespace.</p>
    <p>This limitation is imposed by the details of the <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute syntax,
      which makes it impractical to have namespace-qualified names for either vocabulary modules or
      individual element types or attributes. Elements included as descendants of the DITA
        <xmlelement>foreign</xmlelement> element type can be in any namespace.</p>
    <!--IGNORE may-must-should word-->
    <note>Domain modules that are intended for wide use should define element type names that are
      unlikely to conflict with names used in other domains, for example, by using a domain-specific
      prefix on all names.</note>
  </conbody>
</concept>

