<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="topic_nt3_b12_zl" >
  <title>Sharing elements across specializations</title>
  <shortdesc>Specialization enables easy reuse of elements from ancestor specializations. However,
    it is also possible to reuse elements from non-ancestor specializations, as long as the
    dependency is properly declared in order to prevent invalid generalization or conref
    processing.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>examples<indexterm>specialization<indexterm>reuse of elements from non-ancestor
              specializations</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>specialization<indexterm>examples<indexterm>reuse of elements from non-ancestor
              specializations</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>specialization<indexterm>reuse of elements from non-ancestor
            specializations</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <section id="sharing">
      <p>A structural specialization can incorporate elements from unrelated domains or other
        structural specializations by referencing them in the content model of a specialized
        element. The elements included in this manner must be specialized from ancestor content that
        is valid in the new context. If the reusing and reused specializations share common
        ancestry, the reused elements must be valid in the reusing context at every level they share
        in common.</p>
      <p>Although a well-designed structural specialization hierarchy with controlled use of domains
        is still the primary means of sharing and reusing elements in DITA, the ability to also
        share elements declared elsewhere in the hierarchy allows for situations where relevant
        markup comes from multiple sources and would otherwise be developed redundantly.</p>
    </section>
    <example id="conceptexample" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example: A specialization of <xmlelement>concept</xmlelement> reuses an element from
        the task module</title>
      <p>A specialized concept topic could declare a specialized <xmlelement>process</xmlelement>
        section that contains the <xmlelement>steps</xmlelement> element that is defined in the task
        module. This is possible because of the following factors:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>The <xmlelement>steps</xmlelement> element is specialized from
            <xmlelement>ol</xmlelement>.</li>
        <li>The <xmlelement>process</xmlelement> element is specialized from
            <xmlelement>section</xmlelement>, and the content model of
            <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> includes <xmlelement>ol</xmlelement>.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The <xmlelement>steps</xmlelement> element in <xmlelement>process</xmlelement> always can
        be generalized back to <xmlelement>ol</xmlelement> in <xmlelement>section</xmlelement>.</p>
    </example>
    <example id="referenceexample" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example: A specialization of <xmlelement>reference</xmlelement> reuses an element from
        the programming domain</title>
      <p>A specialized reference topic could declare a specialized list
          (<xmlelement>apilist</xmlelement>) in which each <xmlelement>apilistitem</xmlelement>
        contains an <xmlelement>apiname</xmlelement> element that is borrowed from the programming
        domain. </p>
      <!--<p>For example, suppose that <xmlelement>yourtask</xmlelement> is a valid specialization of <xmlelement>task</xmlelement> and that the <xmlelement>yoursteps</xmlelement> element in <xmlelement>yourtask</xmlelement> is a specialization of the <xmlelement>steps</xmlelement> element from <xmlelement>task</xmlelement>. The <xmlelement>yoursteps</xmlelement> ancestry is <codeph>- topic/ol task/steps yourtask/yoursteps</codeph>. Consquently, <xmlelement>yoursteps</xmlelement> must only appear in a context in <xmlelement>yourtask</xmlelement> that can be generalized back to <xmlelement>steps</xmlelement> in <xmlelement>task</xmlelement>. Now, suppose that another specializer wants to create a second specialization of <xmlelement>task</xmlelement>, called <xmlelement>mytask</xmlelement>. The specializer borrows the <xmlelement>yoursteps</xmlelement> element from the <xmlelement>yourtask</xmlelement> specialization for use in <xmlelement>mytask</xmlelement>, because <xmlelement>yoursteps</xmlelement> is exactly what is needed. As was the case in <xmlelement>yourtask</xmlelement>, the placement of <xmlelement>yoursteps</xmlelement> in <xmlelement>mytask</xmlelement> must also appear in a context that can be generalized back to <xmlelement>steps</xmlelement> in <xmlelement>task</xmlelement>. This is because the ancestry for <xmlelement>yoursteps</xmlelement> is still <codeph>- topic/ol task/steps yourtask/yoursteps</codeph>, even though <xmlelement>yoursteps</xmlelement> is being used in the <xmlelement>mytask</xmlelement> specialization. If we allowed <xmlelement>mytask</xmlelement> to transplant specializations of <xmlelement>steps</xmlelement> anywhere they wanted in the <xmlelement>mytask</xmlelement> model, then <xmlelement>mytask</xmlelement> would cease to be a valid specialization of <xmlelement>task</xmlelement>. </p>-->
    </example>
  </conbody>
</concept>
