<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="classatt" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title><xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute rules and syntax</title>
  <shortdesc>The specialization hierarchy of each DITA element is declared as the value of the
      <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute. The <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute provides a mapping from
    the current name of the element to its more general equivalents, but it also can provide a
    mapping from the current name to more specialized equivalents. All specialization-aware
    processing can be defined in terms of <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute values.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute<indexterm>rules and
          syntax</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute<indexterm>examples</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>examples<indexterm><xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>The <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute tells a processor what general classes of elements the
      current element belongs to. DITA scopes elements by module type (for example topic type,
      domain type, or map type) instead of document type, which lets document type developers
      combine multiple module types in a single document without complicating transformation
      logic.</p>
    <p>The sequence of values in the <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute is important because it tells
      processors which value is the most general and which is most specific. This sequence is what
      enables both specialization aware processing and generalization.</p>
    <section id="syntax">
      <title>Syntax</title>
      <p>Values for the <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute have the following syntax requirements:<ul>
          <li>An initial "-" or "+" character followed by one or more spaces. Use "-" for element
            types that are defined in structural vocabulary modules, and use "+" for element types
            that are defined in domain modules.</li>
          <li>A sequence of one or more tokens of the form
                <codeph>"<varname>modulename</varname>/<varname>typename</varname>",</codeph> with
            each token separated by one or more spaces, where
              <varname>modulename</varname> is the short name of the vocabulary module and
              <varname>typename</varname> is the element type name. Tokens are ordered left to right
            from most general to most specialized.<p>These tokens provide a mapping for every
              structural type or domain in the ancestry of the specialized element. The
              specialization hierarchy for a given element type must reflect any intermediate
              modules between the base type and the specialization type, even those in which no
              element renaming occurs.</p></li>
          <li>At least one trailing space character (" "). The trailing space ensures that string
            matches on the tokens can always include a leading and trailing space in order to
            reliably match full tokens. </li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="rules">
      <title>Rules</title>
      <draft-comment author="robander">Question about the following statement. If a topic has no
        integrated attribute domains in 2.0, the value of @specializations will be empty. Is this
        really a MUST? Should we clarify to indicate that this must be declared in the grammar, but
        does not necessarily need to have a value - I know that has caused confusion in the past for
        a tool that reported errors for empty @domains<p>Response by Eliot Kimber, 18 May 2021:</p><lq>
          <p>If @specializations is only relevant to attribute specializations then I think it would
            be sensible to allow it to be omitted, with an omitted @specializations being equivalent
            to specializations="" (empty or whitespace-only value).</p>
          <p>The counter to that approach is that you can't easily distinguish between really having
            no attribute specializations and just forgetting to provide @specializations, but in
            that case I think you'd get runtime failures if you actually had specializations that
            weren't declared (i.e., your @props specializations aren't recognized so things don't
            filter correctly).</p>
          <p>Seems like an edge case in practice since DITA defines a number of out-of-the box
            attribute specializations, including now all of the original conditional attributes.</p>
        </lq></draft-comment>
      <p>Every DITA element (except the <xmlelement>dita</xmlelement> element that is used as the
        root of a ditabase document) <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> declare a
          <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute.</p>
      <p>When the <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute is declared in an XML grammar, it <term
          outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> be declared with a default value. In order to support
        generalization round-tripping (generalizing specialized content into a generic form and then
        returning it to the specialized form) the default value <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST
          NOT</term> be fixed. This allows a generalization process to overwrite the default values
        that are defined by a general document type with specialized values taken from the document
        being generalized.</p>
      <p>A vocabulary module <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST NOT</term> change the
          <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute for elements that it does not specialize, but simply
        reuses by reference from more generic levels.</p>
      <p>Authors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD NOT</term> modify the <xmlatt>class</xmlatt>
        attribute.</p>
    </section>
    <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example: DTD declaration for <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute for the
          <xmlelement>step</xmlelement> element</title>
      <p>The following code sample lists the DTD declaration for the <xmlatt>class</xmlatt>
        attribute for the <xmlelement>step</xmlelement> element:</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;!ATTLIST step         class  CDATA "- topic/li task/step "></codeblock>
      <p>This indicates that the <xmlelement>step</xmlelement> element is specialized from the
          <xmlelement>li</xmlelement> element in a generic topic. It also indicates explicitly that
        the <xmlelement>step</xmlelement> element is available in a task topic; this enables
        round-trip migration between upper level and lower level types without the loss of
        information.</p>
    </example>
    <example id="example2" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example: Element with <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute made explicit</title>
      <p>The following code sample shows the value of the <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute for the
          <xmlelement>wintitle</xmlelement> element:</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;wintitle class="+ topic/keyword ui-d/wintitle ">A specialized keyword&lt;/wintitle></codeblock>
      <p>The <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute and its value is generally not surfaced in authored
        DITA topics, although it might be made explicit as part of a processing operation.</p>
    </example>
    <example id="example3" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example: <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute with intermediate value</title>
      <p>The following code sample shows the value of a <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute for an
        element in the guiTask module, which is specialized from <xmlelement>task</xmlelement>. The
        element is specialized from <xmlelement>keyword</xmlelement> in the base topic vocabulary,
        rather than from an element in the task module:</p>
      <codeblock base="ci-xml">&lt;windowName class="- topic/keyword task/keyword guiTask/windowname ">...&lt;/windowName></codeblock>
      <p>The intermediate values are necessary so that generalizing and specializing transformations
        can map the values simply and accurately. For example, if <codeph>task/keyword</codeph> was
        missing as a value, and a user decided to generalize this guiTask up to a task topic, then
        the transformation would have to guess whether to map to keyword (appropriate if task is
        more general than guiTask, which it is) or leave it as windowName (appropriate if task were
        more specialized, which it isn't). By always providing mappings for more general values,
        processors can then apply the simple rule that missing mappings must by default be to more
        specialized values than the one we are generalizing to, which means the last value in the
        list is appropriate. For example, when generalizing <xmlelement>guitask</xmlelement> to
          <xmlelement>task</xmlelement>, if a <xmlelement>p</xmlelement> element has no target value
        for <xmlelement>task</xmlelement>, we can safely assume that <xmlelement>p</xmlelement> does
        not specialize from <xmlelement>task</xmlelement> and does not need to be generalized.</p>
    </example>
  </conbody>
</concept>
