<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="subjectSchema" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title>Subject scheme maps</title>
    <shortdesc >Subject scheme maps use key definitions to define collections
        of controlled values and subject definitions.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>classifying content</indexterm>
                <indexterm>controlled values<indexterm>classifying content for flagging and
                        filtering</indexterm><indexterm>definition
                        of</indexterm><indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>definitions<indexterm>controlled values</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>filtering and flagging<indexterm>classifying content
                    for</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>subject scheme maps<indexterm>extending</indexterm><indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p><term>Controlled values</term> are tokens that can be used as
      values for attributes. For example, the <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>
      attribute can take a value that identifies the users that are
      associated with a particular product. Typical values for a
      medical-equipment product line might include "therapist",
      "oncologist", "physicist", and "radiologist". In a subject scheme
      map, an information architect can define a list of these values for
      the <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt> attribute. Controlled values can be
      used to classify content for filtering and flagging at build time. </p>
        <p ><term>Subject definitions</term> are classifications and
            sub-classifications that compose a tree. Subject definitions provide  semantics that can
            be used in conjunction with taxonomies and ontologies. In conjunction with the
            classification domain, subject definitions can be used for retrieval and traversal of
            the content at run time when used with information viewing applications that provide
            such functionality.</p>
        <p >Key references to controlled values are resolved to a key
            definition using the same precedence rules as apply to any other key. However, once a
            key is resolved to a controlled value, that key reference does not typically result in
            links or generated text.</p>
    <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="14 December 2021">
      <p>Adding content from DITAweb review B:</p>
      <p>Comment from Stan Doherty: FWIW -- I do not understand what the
        second sentence ["However, omce a key is resolved ... "] means.</p>
      <p>Comment from Kris Eberlein: Quite simply, that key references
        resolved within a subjectScheme map do NOT generate variable text
        or produce links. Within the context of a subjectScheme map, the
        key references provide bindings or associations with subjects.</p>
      <p>Comment from Robert Anderson: I think the root of this problem /
        this misunderstanding is the poor design choice of using the same
        keys/keyref attribute for Subject Schemes as we do for normal
        linking / variable text. We had an item in the 2.0 queue to
        completely redesign that, but never had anyone with the time /
        energy to work on it (it would have been a big change).</p>
      <p>The problem here is that we have to explain "These don't work like
        normal keys, and you shouldn't use them in links and expect them to
        resolve as text or links" -- in a way that is clear, accurate, and
        short enough that it actually gets read. So, I think we need some
        work on this paragraph.</p>
    </draft-comment>
    </conbody>
</concept>
