<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="table-of-contents">
 <title>Table of contents</title>
 <shortdesc>Processors can generate a table of contents (TOC) based on the hierarchy of the elements
  in a DITA map. By default, each <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element in a map represents a
  node in the TOC. These topic references define a navigation tree.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>When a map contains a topic reference to a map (often called a map reference), processors
      integrate the navigation tree of the referenced map with the navigation tree of the
      referencing map at the point of reference. In this way, a deliverable can be compiled from
      multiple DITA maps.</p>
    <note conkeyref="reuse-general/mapref-with-child-elements"/>
  <p>The effective navigation title is used for the value of the TOC node. A TOC node is generated
   for every <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element that references a topic or specifies a
   navigation title, except in the following cases:</p>
  <ul>
   <li>The <xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt> attribute that is specified on the
     <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element or an ancestor element is set to
    "resource-only".</li>
   <li>Conditional processing is used to filter out the node or an ancestor node.</li>
   <li>There is no information from which a TOC entry can be constructed; there is no referenced
    resource or navigation title.</li>
   <li>The node is a <xmlelement>topicgroup</xmlelement> element, even if it specifies a navigation
    title.</li>
  </ul>
  <p>To suppress a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element from appearing in the TOC, set the
    <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt> attribute to "no". The value of the <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt> attribute cascades
   to child <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements, so if <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt> is set to "no" on
   a particular <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>, all children of the
    <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element are also excluded from the TOC. If a child
    <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> overrides the cascading operation by specifying
    <codeph>toc="yes"</codeph>, then the node that specifies <codeph>toc="yes"</codeph> appears in
   the TOC (minus the intermediate nodes that set <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt> to "no").</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
