<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="keyscope-attribute" >
  <title>The <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> attribute</title>
  <shortdesc>The <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> attribute consists of one or more space-separated key
    scope names. Map authors define the boundaries for key scopes by specifying the
      <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> attribute on <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> elements,
      <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements, or elements that are specializations of
      <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>. Such elements, their
    contents, and any locally-scoped content referenced from within the element, are considered to
    be part of the scope. Keys defined within a scope are only directly referenceable from within
    the same scope. They can be referenced from the parent scope using the scope's name, followed by
    a period, followed by the key name.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>key reference
          attributes<indexterm><xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="duplicate-scope">
      <draft-comment author="robander" time="19 May 2021">This topic contains a lot of processor /
        implementation rules and was moved from the langref to the archspec seciton about keys. Need
        to merge with existing key scope rules to ensure no duplication / no conflicting
          content.<p>Update Oct 14 2021: there is now a longer example of the non-intersecting
          behavior in <xref href="example-scoped-key-name-conflicts.dita"/> so probably want to
          remove the simpler example from this page</p></draft-comment>
      <p id="non-intersecting">All key scopes are contiguous and non-intersecting. Within a root
        map, two distinct key scopes with the same name have no relationship with each other aside
        from that implied by their relative locations in the key scope hierarchy. They do not, for
        example, share key definitions. The only processing impact of a key scope's names is in
        defining the prefixes used when contributing qualified key names to the parent scope. For
        example, consider the following map segment:</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;map>
  &lt;topicgroup keyscope="xyz" id="scope1">
    &lt;keydef keys="a" id="def1"/>
    &lt;!-- other topic references -->
  &lt;/topicgroup>
  &lt;topicgroup keyscope="xyz" id="scope2">
    &lt;keydef keys="a" id="def2"/>
    &lt;!-- other topic references -->
  &lt;/topicgroup>
  &lt;!-- lots of other content -->
&lt;/map></codeblock>
      <p>This map creates two distinct scopes that happen to use the same name
          (<keyword>xyz</keyword>). This results in the following:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Each <xmlelement>topicgroup</xmlelement> sets a scope of <keyword>xyz</keyword> and
          includes a key <keyword>a</keyword>. From outside of those two scopes, references to
            <codeph>keyref="xyz.a"</codeph> (key <keyword>a</keyword> within the scope
            <keyword>xyz</keyword>) will always resolve to the first instance of that value, which
          is in the first <xmlelement>topicgroup</xmlelement>.</li>
        <li>Within the first <xmlelement>topicgroup</xmlelement>, content uses
            <codeph>keyref="a"</codeph> will resolve to the key in that branch (defined on the
          element with <codeph>id="def1"</codeph>).</li>
        <li>Within the second <xmlelement>topicgroup</xmlelement>, content uses
            <codeph>keyref="a"</codeph> will resolve to the key in that branch (defined on the
          element with <codeph>id="def2"</codeph>).</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
