<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="theconrefattribute" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>The <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute</title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute is used to reference content that can be reused. It
    allows reuse of DITA elements, including topic or map level elements.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>conref attributes<indexterm><xmlatt>conref</xmlatt></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="section_pdh_wxy_qpb">
      <draft-comment author="robander" time="19 May 2021">This topic is moving into the arch spec,
        but needs further editing to split overview / conceptual info from processing info; this and
        other conref-attribute topics currently have a bunch of processing info that is missing from
        the actual "Processing conref" arch spec topics.</draft-comment>
    </section>
<section id="section-1"><p>The value of the <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute must be a URI reference to a DITA element. See
          <xref href="../../archSpec/base/uri-based-addressing.dita"/> for details on specifying URI
        references to DITA elements. <ph>As with other DITA references, a <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>
          attribute that references a resource without an ID is treated as a reference to the first
          topic or map in the document.</ph></p><note>When using the <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute on an element, the content of that element is
        ignored. For example, if a phrase is marked up like
        this:<codeblock>&lt;ph conref="#topic/ph">Something&lt;/ph></codeblock> the
        word "Something" will be replaced by the content of the referenced
          <xmlelement>ph</xmlelement> element.</note></section>
</refbody>
</reference>

