<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="theconrefendattribute" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>The <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> attribute</title>
  <shortdesc>The <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> attribute is used when referencing a range of elements
    with the conref mechanism. The <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attribute
    references the first element in the range, while <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> references the last
    element in the range. </shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>conref attributes<indexterm><xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="section_v1f_5xy_qpb">
      <draft-comment author="robander" time="19 May 2021">This topic is moving into the arch spec,
        but needs further editing to split overview / conceptual info from processing info; this and
        other conref-attribute topics currently have a bunch of processing info that is missing from
        the actual "Processing conref" arch spec topics.</draft-comment>
    </section>
    <section id="section-1"><title>Using <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> together with
          <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt></title>
      <p>The following markup rules apply when using or implementing <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt>:<ul>
          <li>The start and end elements of a range <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> be of
            the same type as the referencing element or generalizable to the referencing
            element.<!-- For example, <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> attributes on an <xmlelement>li</xmlelement> element might reference other <xmlelement>li</xmlelement> elements, or they might reference specializations of <xmlelement>li</xmlelement> such as <xmlelement>step</xmlelement>.--></li>
          <li>The start and end elements in a range <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> share
            the same parent, and the start element <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> precede
            the end element in document order.</li>
          <li>The parent of the referencing element <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> be the
            same as the parent of the referenced range or generalizable to the parent of the
            referencing element.
            <!--For example, it is possible to pull a range from <xmlelement>conbody</xmlelement> into <xmlelement>body</xmlelement>, because <xmlelement>conbody</xmlelement> is generalizable to <xmlelement>body</xmlelement>. It is not possible to pull a range from <xmlelement>body</xmlelement> into <xmlelement>conbody</xmlelement>, because the result <ph>might</ph> not be valid in <xmlelement>conbody</xmlelement>.--></li>
        </ul></p><p>In addition, several other items must be taken into account:</p><ul>
        <li>Processors will resolve the range by pulling in the start target and following sibling
          XML nodes across to and including the end target.</li>
        <li>As with <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>, if the <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> references a more
          specialized version of the referencing element, applications should generalize the target
          when resolving. </li>
        <li>It is not valid to use <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> to reference a more general version of
          an element (such as using <xmlelement>step</xmlelement> to reference an
            <xmlelement>li</xmlelement> element).</li>
        <li>Other nodes (such as elements or text) between the start and end of a range do not have
          to match the referencing element.</li>
        <li>With single conref, an <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute from the referenced element will
          not be preserved on the resolved content. With a range, an <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> on both the
          start and the end elements will not be preserved. <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attributes on
          intermediate or child nodes should be preserved; if this results in duplicate
            <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> values, an application <ph>can recover by changing the
              <xmlatt>id</xmlatt>, warning the user, or implementing another strategy.</ph></li>
        <li>With a single conref, attributes specified on the referencing element<ph>can</ph> be
          used to override attributes on the referenced element. With a conref range, the same is
          true, with the following clarifications: <ul>
            <li>When an <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute is specified on the referencing element, it
              will only be preserved on the first element of the resolved range.</li>
            <li>When other attributes are specified, they will only apply to referenced elements of
              the same type. For example, if <xmlelement>step</xmlelement> is used to pull in a
              range of sequential <xmlelement>step</xmlelement> elements, locally specified
              attributes apply to all steps in the range. If <xmlelement>ol</xmlelement> is used to
              pull in a series of (<xmlelement>ol</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>p</xmlelement>,
                <xmlelement>ol</xmlelement>), locally specified attributes apply only to the
                <xmlelement>ol</xmlelement> elements in that range.</li>
          </ul></li>
      </ul></section>
    <example id="example-reuse-li" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example: reusing a set of list items</title>
      <fig>
        <title>List example: Source <filepath>topic.dita</filepath> with ids</title>
        <codeblock>&lt;topic id="x">
  &lt;title>Sample file topic.dita&lt;/title>
  &lt;body>
    &lt;ol>
      &lt;li id="apple">A&lt;/li>
      &lt;li id="bear">B&lt;/li>
      &lt;li id="cat">C&lt;/li>
      &lt;li id="dog">D&lt;/li>
      &lt;li id="eel">E&lt;/li>
    &lt;/ol>
  &lt;/body>
&lt;/topic></codeblock>
      </fig>
      <fig id="fig_C0AF6F23F1E74AF98540F736113DFFAB">
        <title>List example: Reusing topic with conrefs</title>
        <codeblock>&lt;topic id="y">
  &lt;title>Sample file reusing content&lt;/title>
  &lt;body>
    &lt;ol>
      &lt;li>My own first item&lt;/li>
      &lt;li conref="topic.dita#x/bear" conrefend="topic.dita#x/dog"/>
      &lt;li>And a different final item&lt;/li>
    &lt;/ol>
  &lt;/body>
&lt;/topic></codeblock>
      </fig>
      <fig id="fig_A79BE8A6869B4DFDAAFA2F55BC113AA1">
        <title>List example: Processed result of reusing topic</title>
        <codeblock>&lt;topic id="y">
  &lt;title>Sample file reusing content&lt;/title>
  &lt;body>
    &lt;ol>
      &lt;li>My own first item&lt;/li>
      &lt;li>B&lt;/li>
      &lt;li id="cat">C&lt;/li>
      &lt;li>D&lt;/li>
      &lt;li>And a different final item&lt;/li>
    &lt;/ol>
  &lt;/body>
&lt;/topic></codeblock>
      </fig>
    </example>
    <example id="example-reuse-blocks" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example: Reusing a set of blocks</title>
      <fig id="fig_7BB281DFE28F474BB9197BAE691B927C">
        <title>Block level example: Source <filepath>topic.dita</filepath> with ids</title>
        <codeblock>&lt;topic id="x">
  &lt;title>Sample file topic.dita&lt;/title>
  &lt;body>
    &lt;p id="p1"&gt;First para&lt;/p&gt;
    &lt;ol id="mylist"&gt;
      &lt;li id="apple"&gt;A&lt;/li&gt;
      &lt;li id="bear"&gt;B&lt;/li&gt;
      &lt;li id="cat"&gt;C&lt;/li&gt;
      &lt;li id="dog"&gt;D&lt;/li&gt;
      &lt;li id="eel"&gt;E&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;/ol&gt;
    &lt;p id="p2"&gt;Second para&lt;/p&gt;
  &lt;/body&gt;
&lt;/topic&gt;</codeblock>
      </fig>
      <fig id="fig_BF890E35527C41FBA93878660EFC1636">
        <title>Block level example: Reusing topic with conrefs</title>
        <codeblock>&lt;topic id="y"&gt;
  &lt;title>Sample file reusing content&lt;/title>
  &lt;body>
    &lt;p conref="topic.dita#x/p1" conrefend="topic.dita#x/p2"/&gt;
  &lt;/body>
&lt;/topic&gt;</codeblock>
      </fig>
      <fig id="fig_D257C3B1EE2B49DA85457B1753A8C79D">
        <title>Block level example: Processed result of reusing topic</title>
        <codeblock>&lt;topic id="y"&gt;
  &lt;title>Sample file reusing content&lt;/title>
  &lt;body>
    &lt;p&gt;First para&lt;/p&gt;
    &lt;ol id="mylist"&gt;
      &lt;li id="apple"&gt;A&lt;/li&gt;
      &lt;li id="bear"&gt;B&lt;/li&gt;
      &lt;li id="cat"&gt;C&lt;/li&gt;
      &lt;li id="dog"&gt;D&lt;/li&gt;
      &lt;li id="eel"&gt;E&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;/ol&gt;
    &lt;p&gt;Second para&lt;/p&gt;
  &lt;/body&gt;
&lt;/topic&gt;</codeblock>
      </fig>
    </example>
    <section id="conkeyref">
      <title>Using <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> together with <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt></title>
      <p>When the <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attribute is used in place of <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>,
        a key is used to address the target of the reference. The <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt>
        attribute, which indicates the end of a <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> range, cannot use a key.
        Instead the map or topic element addressed by the key name component of the
          <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> is used in place of whatever map or topic element is addressed
        by the <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> attribute.</p>
      <p>For example, if the value of the <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attribute is
          <keyword>config/step1</keyword> and the value of the <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> is
          <keyword>defaultconfig.dita#config/laststep</keyword>, the conref range will end with the
        step that has <codeph>id="laststep"</codeph> in whatever topic is addressed by the key name
          <keyword>config</keyword>. If the key name <keyword>config</keyword> is not defined, and
        the <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute itself is not present for fallback, the
          <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> attribute is ignored.</p>
    </section>
    <example id="conrefend-with-conkeyref" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example: Combining <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> with <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt></title>
      <fig>
        <title>Defining and referencing a key with <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt></title>
        <p>In this example the key <keyword>xmp</keyword> is defined as the first topic in the file
            <filepath>examples.dita.</filepath></p>
        <codeblock id="codeblock_hwy_krh_psb">&lt;map>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
  &lt;keydef keys="xmp" href="examples.dita"/>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/map></codeblock>
        <codeblock id="codeblock_iwy_krh_psb">&lt;!-- examples.dita: -->
&lt;topic id="examples">
  &lt;title>These are examples&lt;/title>
  &lt;body>
    &lt;ul>
      &lt;li id="first">A first example&lt;/li>
      &lt;li>Another trivial example&lt;/li>
      &lt;li id="last">Final example&lt;/li>
    &lt;/ul>
  &lt;/body>
&lt;/topic></codeblock>
        <p>To reuse these list items by using the key, the <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attribute
          combines the key itself with the sub-topic id (first) to define the start of the range.
          The <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> attribute defines a default high-level object along with
          the sub-topic id (last) that ends the
          range:<codeblock>  &lt;li conkeyref="xmp/first" 
      conrefend="default.dita#default/last"/></codeblock></p>
        <p>The <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attribute uses a key to reference the first topic in
            <filepath>examples.dita</filepath>, so the range begins with the object
            <codeph>examples.dita#examples/first</codeph>. The high-level object in the
            <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> attribute (<codeph>default.dita#default</codeph>) is replaced
          with the object represented by the key (the first topic in
            <filepath>examples.dita</filepath>), resulting in a range that ends with the object
            <codeph>examples.dita#examples/last</codeph>.</p>
      </fig>
      <fig>
        <title>Combining <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt>, and
            <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt></title>
        <p>When <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt>, and <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt>
          are all specified, the key value takes priority.</p>
        <codeblock>  &lt;li conkeyref="thisconfig/start"
      conref="standardconfig.dita#config/start"
      conrefend="standardconfig.dita#config/end"/></codeblock>
        <ul>
          <li>If the key <keyword>thisconfig</keyword> is defined as
              <codeph>mySpecialConfig.dita#myconfig</codeph>, then the range will go from the list
            item with <codeph>id="start"</codeph> to the list item with<codeph>id="end"</codeph> in
            the topic <codeph>mySpecialConfig.dita#myconfig</codeph>.</li>
          <li>If the key <keyword>thisconfig</keyword> is defined as <codeph>myConfig.dita</codeph>,
            then the range will go from the list item with <codeph>id="start"</codeph> to the list
            item with <codeph>id="end"</codeph> within the first topic in
              <codeph>myConfig.dita</codeph>.</li>
          <li>If the key <keyword>thisconfig</keyword> is not defined, then the unchanged
              <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> attributes are used as
            fallback. In that case, the range will go from the list item with
              <codeph>id="start"</codeph> to the list item with <codeph>id="end"</codeph> within the
            topic <codeph>standardconfig.dita#config</codeph>.</li>
        </ul>
      </fig>
    </example>
    <section id="error-conditions" outputclass="errorcondition">
      <title>Error conditions</title>
      <p>When encountering an error condition, an implementation can issue an error message.</p>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Condition or Issue</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Result</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">The <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute cannot be resolved in the
                target document (the target element <ph>might</ph> have been removed or its id has
                changed). </entry>
              <entry colname="col2">The <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> is ignored.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">The <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> attribute cannot be resolved in
                the target document (the target element <ph>might</ph> have been removed or its id
                has changed).</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Range cannot be resolved, optional recovery processes the result
                as a simple conref.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Start and end elements are not siblings in the target
                document.</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">If the start element exists, optional recovery processes the
                result as a simple conref. </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">End element occurs before the start element in the target
                document.</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">If the start element exists, optional recovery processes the
                result as a simple conref.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">An element has a <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> attribute but is
                missing the <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute.</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">No result.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
