<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="theformatattribute" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>The <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute</title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute identifies the format of
    the resource that is referenced. </shortdesc>
      <prolog>
            <metadata>
                  <keywords>
                        <indexterm>linking
                    attributes<indexterm><xmlatt>format</xmlatt></indexterm></indexterm>
                  </keywords>
            </metadata>
      </prolog>
<conbody>
    <p>The following values are explicitly supported: </p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><keyword>dita</keyword></dt>
        <dd>Indicates that the target is a DITA topic or an element in a
          DITA topic. Unless otherwise specified, when
            <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> is set to <keyword>dita</keyword>, the
          value for the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute is treated as
            <keyword>topic</keyword>.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><keyword>ditamap</keyword></dt>
        <dd>Indicates that the target is a DITA map. References to submaps
          can occur at any point in a map.</dd>
        <!--<dd><p>When a topic reference specifies <codeph>format="ditamap"</codeph>, the topic reference resolves to the hierarchy of the topic references in the targeted map. This is equivalent to inserting those topic references at the current point in the map that contains the topic reference that specifies <codeph>format="ditamap"</codeph>. References to submaps can occur at any point in a map.</p></dd>-->
        <dd>
          <p>When a topic reference specifies
              <codeph>format="ditamap"</codeph>, the topic reference
            resolves in one of the following ways:</p>
          <simpletable relcolwidth="1* 3*">
            <sthead>
              <stentry>Target of
                <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement></stentry>
              <stentry>Resolution of
                <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement></stentry>
            </sthead>
            <strow>
              <stentry>DITA map</stentry>
              <stentry>The hierarchy of <b>all</b> the topic references in
                the targeted map</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry>Map branch</stentry>
              <stentry>The hierarchy of targeted map branch</stentry>
            </strow>
          </simpletable>
          <p>In either case, the final result is equivalent to inserting
            those topic references at the current point in the map that
            contains the topic reference that specifies
              <codeph>format="ditamap"</codeph>. </p>
        </dd>
        <dd>
          <p>When a topic reference targets an entire DITA map and the
            referenced map contains a relationship table, there are special
            processing implications. Because relationship tables are only
            valid as direct children of the DITA map, referenced
            relationship tables are treated as children of the referencing
            map.</p>
        </dd>
        <dd>
          <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="03 March 2022">
            <p>I think we need to have an example of the expected
              processing behaviour. I think it is a good candidate for the
              new chapter on "DITA map processing".</p>
          </draft-comment>
        </dd>
        <dd>
          <note conkeyref="reuse-general/mapref-with-child-elements"/>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <div id="sample-formats">
      <p>For other formats, the file extension without the "." character
        typically represents the format. For example, the following are all
        possible values for <xmlatt>format</xmlatt>:
          <keyword>html</keyword>, <keyword>pdf</keyword>, or
          <keyword>txt</keyword>.</p>
    </div>
    <p>If no value is explicitly specified for the <xmlatt>format</xmlatt>
      attribute, the following precedence rules apply:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>If the <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute is specified on a
        containing element within the map or within the related-links
        section of the a topic, the value cascades from the closest
        containing element.</li>
      <li>If a value for the <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute does not
        cascade, the processing default is used. The processing default for
        the <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute is determined by inspecting
        the value of the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute:<ol>
          <li>If the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute specifies a file
            extension, the processing default for the
              <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute is that extension, after
            conversion to lower-case and with no leading period. The only
            exception to this is if the extension is
              <filepath>.xml</filepath>, in which case the default value
            for <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> is <keyword>dita</keyword>.</li>
          <li>If there is no file extension, but the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt>
            value is an absolute URI whose scheme is
              <keyword>http</keyword> or <keyword>https</keyword>, then the
            processing default is <keyword>html</keyword>.</li>
          <li>In all other cases where no file extension is available, the
            processing default is <keyword>dita</keyword>.</li>
        </ol></li>
    </ol>
    <!--<p><ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/may-inherit"/></p>-->
    <p>If the actual format of the referenced content differs from the
      effective value of the <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute, and a
      processor is capable of identifying such cases, it <term
        outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> recover gracefully and treat the
      content as its actual format. The processor <term
        outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> also issue a message.</p>
    <div id="lwdita_formats">
      <p>For processors that support Lightweight DITA, the following table
        summarizes values for the <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute:</p>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="newCol1" colnum="1"/>
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="2"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="3"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Document type</entry>
              <entry>Value of the <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry morerows="2">Map</entry>
              <entry>hditamap</entry>
              <entry>HDITA map</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>mditamap</entry>
              <entry>MDITA map</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>xditamap</entry>
              <entry>XDITA map</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry morerows="2">Topic</entry>
              <entry>hdita</entry>
              <entry>HDITA topic</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>mdita</entry>
              <entry>MDITA topic</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>xdita</entry>
              <entry>XDITA topic</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </div>
    <!--<div id="lwdita_formats"><p id="p_ckq_jxh_nhb">For DITA processors that support Lightweight DITA, the following values for <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> have special processing implications: </p><dl><dlentry><dt><keyword>xdita</keyword></dt><dd>The format of the resource is XDITA.</dd></dlentry><dlentry><dt><keyword>mdita</keyword></dt><dd>The format of the resource is MDITA.</dd></dlentry><dlentry><dt><keyword>hdita</keyword></dt><dd>The format of the resource is HDITA. </dd></dlentry><dlentry><dt><keyword>xditamap</keyword></dt><dd>The resource is an XDITA map.</dd></dlentry></dl><dl><dlentry><dt><keyword>hditamap</keyword></dt><dd>The resource is an HDITA map.</dd></dlentry></dl><dl><dlentry><dt><keyword>mditamap</keyword></dt><dd>The resource is an MDITA map.</dd></dlentry></dl></div>-->
</conbody>
</concept>
