<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="thehrefattribute" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>The <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute</title>
 <shortdesc>The <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute specifies the URI of the
    resource that is addressed. <ph rev="review-l">The referenced resource
      can be  </ph> another DITA topic or map, an element inside a DITA
    topic or map, or a non-DITA resource.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
        <indexterm>examples<indexterm><xmlatt>href</xmlatt>
            syntax</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>href</xmlatt><indexterm>syntax
            examples</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>href</xmlatt><indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>href</xmlatt><indexterm>processing
            expectations</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>linking attributes<indexterm><xmlatt>href</xmlatt></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>processing
            expectations<indexterm><xmlatt>href</xmlatt></indexterm></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <conbody>
    <p>The value of the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute <term
        outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> be a valid URI reference [<xref
        format="txt" href="http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3986.txt"
        scope="external">RFC 3986</xref>]. If the value of the
        <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute is not a valid URI reference, an
      implementation <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> generate an
      error message. It <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> also
      recover from this error condition by attempting to convert the value
      to a valid URI reference. </p>
    <p>The value of the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt>
      <ph rev="review-l">attribute</ph> can optionally contain a fragment
      identifier.</p>
    <p>When an <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute references a DITA resource
      using a URI without a fragment identifier, the URI resolves to the
      root element in the referenced document. For the purposes of
      rendering, such as when a topic reference to a DITA document is used
      to render the content as HTML, this means that <b>all</b> topics in
      the target document are included in the reference. For the purpose of
      linking, the reference resolves to the first topic in the document. </p>
    <p>When an <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute references a DITA resource
      using a URI with a fragment identifier, the portion after the hash
      must be a DITA local identifier. A DITA local identifier takes the
      following forms:</p>
    <simpletable relcolwidth="1* 1*">
      <sthead>
        <stentry>Target</stentry>
        <stentry>Syntax</stentry>
      </sthead>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Topic element</stentry>
        <stentry><codeph><varname>topicID</varname></codeph></stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Element in a topic</stentry>
        <stentry><codeph><varname>topicID</varname>/<varname>elementID</varname></codeph></stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Element in a map</stentry>
        <stentry><codeph><varname>mapElementID</varname></codeph></stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>
    <p>Where:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><varname>topicID</varname> is the value of the
          <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute of the DITA topic. If the topic
        referenced by a DITA local identifier is the same topic that
        includes the reference, then <varname>topicID</varname> can be
        replaced by a period.</li>
      <li><varname>elementID</varname> is the value of the
          <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute of the <ph rev="review-l"
          >non-topic</ph> element within a DITA topic.</li>
      <li><varname>mapElementID</varname> is the value of the
          <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute of the element within a DITA map
        document.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>See <xref href="handling-xref-and-conref-within-topics.dita"/> for
      more information on how this syntax relates to conref resolution.</p>
    <!--<draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="03 March 2022"><p>The <sub><i>above</i></sub> sentence was a phrase in the in legacy content. By "this syntax," (I think) it referred to replacing <varname>topicID</varname> with in period. If this material is needed here in this topic, it needs to be recast.</p></draft-comment>-->
  <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
   <title>Example: Common syntax for the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute</title>
   <p>The following table includes some examples of common <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> syntax. Note that
    these examples represent only a few common scenarios and are not all-inclusive.</p>
   <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0*">
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Target</stentry>
          <stentry>Syntax</stentry>
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry>The first topic in a DITA document</stentry>
          <stentry><codeph>href="file.dita"</codeph></stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>A specific topic in a DITA document</stentry>
          <stentry><codeph>href="file.dita#<varname>topicid</varname>"</codeph></stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>A non-topic element inside a DITA topic</stentry>
          <stentry><codeph>href="<ph rev="review-1"
                >file.dita#</ph><varname>topicid</varname>/<varname>elementid</varname>"</codeph></stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>A non-topic element inside the same DITA topic as the
            reference</stentry>
          <stentry><codeph>href="#./<varname>elementid</varname>"</codeph></stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>An element in a DITA map</stentry>
          <stentry><codeph>href="myMap.ditamap#<varname>map-branch</varname>"</codeph></stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>An image</stentry>
          <stentry><codeph>href="exampleImage.jpg"</codeph></stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>An external resource</stentry>
          <stentry><codeph>href="http://www.example.org"</codeph></stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
   <p>where:</p>
   <ul>
    <li><varname>topicid</varname> is the value of the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute on the
     referenced DITA topic.</li>
    <li><varname>elementid</varname> is the value of the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute on the
     referenced (non-topic) DITA element.</li>
    <li><varname>map-branch</varname> is the value of the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute on the
     referenced DITA map element.</li>
   </ul>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>

