<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="thescopeattribute" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>The <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> attribute</title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> attribute identifies the closeness of the relationship between
        the current document and the target resource.</shortdesc>
        <prolog>
                <metadata>
                        <keywords>
                                <indexterm>linking
                                                attributes<indexterm><xmlatt>scope</xmlatt></indexterm></indexterm>
                        </keywords>
                </metadata>
        </prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="section-1">
                        <draft-comment author="robander" time="22 feb 2022">The "opens in new
                                window" really is a processor choice but has been encoded in the
                                spec from the beginning - should we drop that language? There is no
                                reason for the spec to require that "external" opens in a new
                                window, and I'm not sure that the spec should tie that behavior to
                                this value.</draft-comment><ul>
<li>Set <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> to <keyword>local</keyword> when the resource is part of the current
                                        set of content.</li>
<li>Set <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> to <keyword>peer</keyword> when the resource is part of the current
                                        set of content but might not accessible at build time, or
                                        for maps to be treated as root maps for the purpose of
                                        creating map-to-map key references (peer maps). An
                                        implementation might open such resources in the same browser
                                        window to distinguish them from those with
                                                <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> set to
                                                <keyword>external</keyword>.</li>
<li>Set <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> to <keyword>external</keyword> when the resource is not part of the
                                        current information set and should open in a new browser
                                        window.</li>
<li>See <xref keyref="attributes-useconreftarget"/> for more information on
                                                <keyword>-dita-use-conref-target</keyword>.</li>
</ul><p><ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/may-inherit"/> The processing default is determined by the value
                                of the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute. In most cases, the
                                processing default is <keyword>local</keyword>. However the
                                processing default is <keyword>external</keyword> whenever the
                                absolute URI in the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute begins with one
                                of the following schemes:</p>
    <ul >
                <li><keyword>http</keyword></li>
                <li><keyword>https</keyword></li>
                <li><keyword>ftp</keyword></li>
                <li><keyword>mailto</keyword></li>
            </ul>
    <p>Processors can consider additional URI schemes as <keyword>external</keyword> by default.
                                Processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> always consider
                                relative URIs as <keyword>local</keyword> by default.</p></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
