<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="topicorientedwriting" xml:lang="en-US">
       <title>Disciplined, topic-oriented writing</title>
       <shortdesc>Topic-oriented writing is a disciplined approach to writing that emphasizes
              modularity and reuse of concise units of information: topics. Well-designed DITA
              topics can be reused in many contexts, as long as writers are careful to avoid
              unnecessary transitional text.</shortdesc>
       <conbody>
              <dl>
                     <dlentry>
                            <dt>Conciseness and appropriateness</dt>
                            <dd>Readers who are trying to learn or do something quickly appreciate
                                   information that is written in a structure that is easy to follow
                                   and contains only the information needed to complete that task or
                                   grasp a fact. Recipes, encyclopedia entries, car repair
                                   procedures--all serve up a uniquely focused unit of information.
                                   The topic contains everything required by the reader.</dd>
                     </dlentry>
                     <dlentry>
                            <dt>Locational independence</dt>
                            <dd>A well-designed topic is reusable in other contexts to the extent
                                   that it is context free, meaning that it can be inserted into a
                                   new document without revision of its content. A context-free
                                   topic avoids transitional text. Phrases like "As we considered
                                   earlier ..." or "Now that you have completed the initial step
                                   ..." make little sense if a topic is reused in a new context in
                                   which the relationships are different or no longer exist. A
                                   well-designed topic reads appropriately in any new context
                                   because the text does not refer the reader outside the
                                   topic.</dd>
                     </dlentry>
                     <dlentry>
                            <dt>Navigational independence</dt>
                            <dd>
                                   <p>Most print publications or web pages are a mixture of content
                                          and navigation. Internal links lead a reader through a
                                          sequence of choices as he or she navigates through a
                                          website. DITA supports the separation of navigation from
                                          content by assembling independent topics into DITA maps.
                                          Nonetheless, writers might want to provide links within a
                                          topic to additional topics or external resources. DITA
                                          does not prohibit such linking within individual topics.
                                          The DITA relationship table enables links between topics
                                          and to external content. Since it is defined in the DITA
                                          map, it is managed independently of the topic content.</p>
                                   <p>Links in the content are best used for cross-references within
                                          a topic. Links from within a topic to additional topics or
                                          external resources should be avoided because they limit
                                          the reusability of the topic. To link from a term or
                                          keyword to its definition, use the DITA keyref facility to
                                          avoid creating topic-to-topic dependencies that are
                                          difficult to maintain. See <xref
                                                 href="key-based-addressing.dita" format="dita"
                                                 >Key-based addressing</xref></p>
                            </dd>
                     </dlentry>
              </dl>
       </conbody>
</concept>
