<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="topiccontent" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Topic content</title>
<shortdesc>The content of all topics, regardless of topic type, is
built on the same common structures.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>topics<indexterm>content</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
<conbody>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Topic body</dt>
<dd>The topic body contains all content except for that contained in the title or the short
          description/abstract. The topic body can be constrained to remove specific elements from
          the content model; it also can be specialized to add additional specialized elements to
          the content model. The topic body can be generic while the topic title and prolog are
          specialized.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Sections and examples</dt>
<dd>The body of a topic might contain divisions, such as sections and examples. They might contain
          block-level elements like titles and paragraphs and phrase-level elements like API names
          or text. It is recommend that sections have titles, whether they are entered directly into
          the <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element or rendered using a fixed or default title.</dd>
<dd>Either body divisions or untitled sections or examples <ph >can</ph> be
          used to delimit arbitrary structures within a topic body. However, body divisions <ph
            >can</ph> nest, but sections and examples cannot contain sections. </dd></dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><xmlelement>sectiondiv</xmlelement></dt>
<dd>The <xmlelement>sectiondiv</xmlelement> element enables the arbitrary grouping of content within
          a section for the purpose of content reuse. The <xmlelement>sectiondiv</xmlelement>
          element does not include a title. For content that requires a title, use
            <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>example</xmlelement>.</dd></dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><xmlelement>bodydiv</xmlelement></dt>
<dd>The <xmlelement>bodydiv</xmlelement> element enables the arbitrary grouping of content within
          the body of a topic for the purpose of content reuse. The <xmlelement>bodydiv</xmlelement>
          element does not include a title. For content that requires a title, use
            <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>example</xmlelement>.</dd></dlentry>
      <dlentry >
        <dt><xmlelement>div</xmlelement></dt>
        <dd>The <xmlelement>div</xmlelement> element enables the arbitrary grouping of content
          within a topic. The <xmlelement>div</xmlelement> element does not include a title. For
          content that requires a title, use <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> or
            <xmlelement>example</xmlelement> or, possibly, <xmlelement>fig</xmlelement>. </dd>
      </dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Block-level elements</dt>
<dd>Paragraphs, lists, figures, and tables are types of "block" elements. As a class of content,
          they can contain other blocks, phrases, or text, though the rules vary for each
          structure.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Phrases and keywords</dt>
<dd>Phrase level elements can contain markup to label parts of a paragraph or parts of a sentence as
          having special semantic meaning or presentation characteristics, such as
            <xmlelement>uicontrol</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>b</xmlelement>. Phrases can usually
          contain other phrases and keywords as well as text. Keywords can only contain text.</dd></dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Images</dt>
<dd>Images can be inserted to display photographs, illustrations, screen captures, diagrams, and
          more. At the phrase level, they can display trademark characters, icons, toolbar buttons,
          and so forth.</dd></dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Multimedia</dt>
<dd>The <xmlelement>object</xmlelement> element enables authors to include multimedia, such as
          diagrams that can be rotated and expanded. The <xmlelement>foreign</xmlelement> element
          enables authors to include media within topic content, for example, SVG graphics, MathML
          equations, and so on.</dd></dlentry>
</dl>
</conbody>
</concept>
