<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="usage-of-conditional-processing-attributes" >
  <title>Conditional processing attribute values with groups</title>
  <shortdesc>For more advanced needs, groups can be used to organize metadata into subcategories
    within a conditional processing attribute.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <p>Grouped values are intended to support situations where a metadata attribute applies to
      multiple specialized subcategories. <ph otherprops="examples">For example, if content is
        classified into two distinct types of product, those distinct types can become named groups
        within the <xmlatt>product</xmlatt> attribute.</ph> The grouping syntax exactly matches the
      syntax used for generalized attributes, making it valid inside <ph
        conkeyref="reuse-general/propsAndSpecializations"/>.</p>
<p>The following rules apply to groups within conditional processing attributes:</p>
    <ul >
      <li>Groups consist of a name immediately followed by a parenthetical group of zero or more
        space-delimited string values. For example, <codeph>"groupName(valueOne
        valueTwo)"</codeph>.</li>
      <li>Groups cannot be nested.</li>
      <li>If two groups with the same name are found in a single attribute, they are treated as if
        all values are specified in the same group. The following values for the
          <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt> attribute are
        equivalent:<codeblock>otherprops="groupA(a b) groupA(c) groupZ(APPNAME)"
otherprops="groupA(a b c) groupZ(APPNAME)"</codeblock></li>
      <li>If both grouped values and ungrouped values are found in a single attribute, the ungrouped
        values belong to an implicit group; the name of that group matches the name of the
        attribute. Therefore, the following values for the <xmlatt>product</xmlatt> attribute are
        equivalent:
        <codeblock>product="a database(dbA dbB) b appserver(mySERVER) c"
product="product(a b c) database(dbA dbB) appserver(mySERVER)"</codeblock></li>
    </ul>
    <p>An empty group within an attribute is equivalent to omitting that group from the attribute.
      For example, <codeph>&lt;ph product="database() A"></codeph> is equivalent to <codeph>&lt;ph
        product="A"></codeph>. Similarly, <codeph>&lt;ph product="operatingSystem()"></codeph> is
      equivalent to <codeph>&lt;ph product=""></codeph>, which in turn is equivalent to
        <codeph>&lt;ph></codeph>.</p>
    <p>If two groups with the same name exist on different attributes, a rule specified for that
      group will evaluate the same way on each attribute. For example, if the group "sample" is
      specified within both <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt>, a DITAVAL
      rule for <codeph>sample="value"</codeph> will evaluate the same in each attribute.
      <!--Subject schemes can be used to define a group differently for two different attributes, but for the purposes of DITAVAL filtering or flagging, there is no way to distinguish.-->
      If there is a need to distinguish between similarly named groups on different attributes, the
      best practice is to use more specific group names such as <varname>platformGroupname</varname>
      and <varname>productGroupname</varname>. Alternatively, DITAVAL rules can be specified based
      on the attribute name rather than the group name.</p>
    <p>If the same group name is used in different attributes, a complex scenario could be created
where different defaults are specified for different attributes, with no rule set for a group or
individual value. In this case a value might end up evaluating differently in the different
attributes. For example, a DITAVAL can set a default of "exclude" for <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt> and
a default of "flag" for <xmlatt>product</xmlatt>. If no rules are specified for group
<codeph>oddgroup()</codeph>, or for the value <codeph>oddgroup="edgecase"</codeph>, the attribute
<codeph>platform="oddgroup(edgecase)"</codeph> will evaluate to "exclude" while
<codeph>product="oddgroup(edgecase)"</codeph> will resolve to "flag". See <xref
href="../../langRef/containers/ditaval-elements.dita"/> for information on how to change default
behaviors in DITAVAL profile.</p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
