<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="usage-of-conditional-processing-attributes" >
  <title>Conditional processing values and groups</title>
  <shortdesc>Conditional processing attributes classify elements with metadata. The metadata is
    specified using space-delimited string values <ph >or grouped
      values.</ph></shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <p otherprops="examples">For example, the string values within <xmlatt>product</xmlatt> in
<codeph>&lt;p product="basic deluxe"></codeph> indicate that the paragraph applies to the
<q>basic</q> product and to the <q>deluxe</q> product. </p>
<p>Groups can be used to organize classification metadata into subcategories. This is intended to
support situations where a predefined metadata attribute applies to multiple specialized
subcategories. The grouping syntax exactly matches the syntax used for generalized attributes,
making it valid inside <ph conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/propsAndSpecializations"
/>.</p>
<p otherprops="examples"> For example, the <xmlatt>product</xmlatt> attribute can be used to
classify an element based on both related databases and related application servers. Using groups
for these subcategories allows each category to be processed independently; when filter conditions
exclude all applicable databases within a group, the element can be safely excluded, regardless of
any other <xmlatt>product</xmlatt> conditions.</p>
<p>Groups can be used within <ph
conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/propsAndSpecializations"/>. The following rules
apply:</p>
    <ul >
      <li>Groups consist of a name immediately followed by a parenthetical group of zero or more
        space-delimited string values. For example, <codeph>"groupName(valueOne
        valueTwo)"</codeph>.</li>
      <li>Groups cannot be nested.</li>
      <li>If two groups with the same name are found in a single attribute, they are treated as if
        all values are specified in the same group. The following values for the
          <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt> attribute are
        equivalent:<codeblock>otherprops="groupA(a b) groupA(c) groupZ(APPNAME)"
otherprops="groupA(a b c) groupZ(APPNAME)"</codeblock></li>
      <li>If both grouped values and ungrouped values are found in a single attribute, the ungrouped
        values belong to an implicit group; the name of that group matches the name of the
        attribute. Therefore, the following values for the <xmlatt>product</xmlatt> attribute are
        equivalent:
        <codeblock>product="a database(dbA dbB) b appserver(mySERVER) c"
product="product(a b c) database(dbA dbB) appserver(mySERVER)"</codeblock></li>
    </ul>
    <p >Setting a conditional processing attribute to an empty value,
      such as <codeph>product=""</codeph>, is equivalent to omitting that attribute from the
      element. An empty group within an attribute is equivalent to omitting that group from the
      attribute. For example, <codeph>&lt;ph product="database() A"></codeph> is equivalent to
        <codeph>&lt;ph product="A"></codeph>. Combining both rules into one example, <codeph>&lt;ph
        product="operatingSystem()"></codeph> is equivalent to <codeph>&lt;ph></codeph>.</p>
    <p >If two groups with the same name exist on different attributes,
      a rule specified for that group will evaluate the same way on each attribute. For example, if
      the group "sampleGroup" is specified within both <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt> and
        <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt>, a DITAVAL rule for <codeph>sampleGroup="value"</codeph> will
      evaluate the same in each attribute.
      <!--Subject schemes can be used to define a group differently for two different attributes, but for the purposes of DITAVAL filtering or flagging, there is no way to distinguish.-->
      If there is a need to distinguish between similarly named groups on different attributes, the
      best practice is to use more specific group names such as platformGroupname and
      productGroupname. Alternatively, DITAVAL rules can be specified based on the attribute name
      rather than the group name.</p>
    <p>If the same group name is used in different attributes, a complex scenario could be created
where different defaults are specified for different attributes, with no rule set for a group or
individual value. In this case a value might end up evaluating differently in the different
attributes. For example, a DITAVAL can set a default of "exclude" for <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt> and
a default of "flag" for <xmlatt>product</xmlatt>. If no rules are specified for group
<codeph>oddgroup()</codeph>, or for the value <codeph>oddgroup="edgecase"</codeph>, the attribute
<codeph>platform="oddgroup(edgecase)"</codeph> will evaluate to "exclude" while
<codeph>product="oddgroup(edgecase)"</codeph> will resolve to "flag". See <xref
href="../../langRef/containers/ditaval-elements.dita"/> for information on how to change default
behaviors in DITAVAL profile.</p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
