<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="using-relax-ng" >
 <title>Normative versions of DITA grammar files</title>
 <shortdesc>The OASIS DITA Technical Committee uses the RELAX NG XML syntax for the normative
    versions of the XML grammar files that comprise the DITA release. </shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm/>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
 <conbody>
    <p>The DITA Technical Committee chose the RELAX NG XML syntax for the following reasons:</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Easy use of foreign markup</dt>
        <dd>The DITA grammar files maintained by OASIS depend on this feature of RELAX NG in order
          to capture metadata about document-type shells and modules.<p>The foreign vocabulary
            feature also can be used to include Schematron rules directly in RELAX NG grammars.
            Schematron rules can check for patterns that either are not expressible with RELAX NG
            directly or that would be difficult to express.</p></dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>RELAX NG <xmlelement>div</xmlelement> element </dt>
        <dd>This general grouping element allows for arbitrary organization and grouping of patterns
          within grammar documents. Such grouping tends to make the grammar documents easier to work
          with, especially in XML-aware editors. The use or non-use of the RELAX NG
            <xmlelement>div</xmlelement> element does not affect the meaning of the patterns that
          are defined in a RELAX NG schema.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Capability of expressing precise restrictions</dt>
        <dd>RELAX NG is capable of expressing constraints that are more precise than is possible
          with either DTDs or XSDs. For example, RELAX NG patterns can be context specific such that
          the same element type can allow different content or attributes in different
            contexts.<p>If you plan to generate DTD- or XSD-based modules from RELAX NG modules,
            avoid RELAX NG features that cannot be translated into DTD or XSD constructs. When RELAX
            NG is used directly for DITA document validation, the document-type shells for those
            documents can integrate constraint modules that use the full power of RELAX NG to
            enforce constraints that cannot be enforced by DTDs or XSDs. The grammar files provided
            by the OASIS DITA Technical Committee do not use any features of RELAX NG that cannot be
            translated into equivalent DTD or XSD constructs.</p><draft-comment
            author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="31 March 2021">
            <p>Regarding the above paragraph, do we want to remove the mentions of XSD? The advice
              is still sound, although I think we want to encourage people who must use XSDs to
              generate a single file for validation from either DTD or RNG.</p>
          </draft-comment></dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <p>The DITA use of RELAX NG depends on the <cite>RELAX NG DTD Compatibility</cite>
      specification, which provides a mechanism for defining default attribute values and embedded
      documentation. Processors that use RELAX NG for DITA documents in which required attributes
      (for example, <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute) are not explicitly present must implement the
      DTD compatibility specification in order to get default attribute values.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
