<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="xmllang" xml:lang="en-US"> 
  <title>The <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute</title> 
  <shortdesc> The <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute specifies the language and (optional) locale
		of the element content. The <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute applies to all attributes
		and content of the element where it is specified, unless it is overridden with
			<xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> on another element within that content.</shortdesc>
	<prolog>
		<metadata>
			<keywords>
				<indexterm>examples<indexterm><xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt></indexterm></indexterm>
				<indexterm>processing
					expectations<indexterm><xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt></indexterm></indexterm>
				<indexterm>maps<indexterm>use of <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt></indexterm></indexterm>
				<indexterm>topics<indexterm>use of <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt></indexterm></indexterm>
				<indexterm>translation<indexterm><xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt></indexterm></indexterm>
				<indexterm><xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute<indexterm>best
						practices</indexterm><indexterm>default
						values</indexterm><indexterm>example</indexterm><indexterm>overview</indexterm><indexterm>use
						with <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> or
					<xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt></indexterm></indexterm>
			</keywords>
		</metadata>
	</prolog> 
  <refbody> 
	 <section id="section">
			<p>The <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> be
				explicitly set on the root element of each map and topic.</p>
			<p>Setting the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute in the DITA source ensures that processors
				handle content in a language- and locale-appropriate way. If the
					<xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute is not set, processors assume a default
				value which might not be appropriate for the DITA content.</p>
			<p>When the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute is specified for a document, DITA
				processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> use the specified value to
				determine the language of the document. </p>
			<p>Setting the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute in the source language document
				facilitates the translation process; it enables translation tools (or translators)
				to simply change the value of the existing <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute to
				the value of the target language. Some translation tools support changing the value
				of an existing <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute, but they do not support adding
				new markup to the document that is being translated. Therefore, if source language
				content does not set the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute, it might be difficult
				or impossible for the translator to add the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute to
				the translated document.</p>
			<p> If the root element of a map or a top-level topic has no value for
					the<xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute , a processor <term
					outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> assume a default value. The default value
				of the processor can be either fixed, configurable, or derived from the content
				itself, such as the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute on the root map.</p>
			<p>The <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute is described in the <xref
					href="http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-lang-tag" scope="external" format="html"
					>XML Recommendation</xref>. Note that the recommended style for the
					<xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute is lowercase language and (optional)
				uppercase, separated by a hyphen, for example, "en-US" or "sp-SP" or "fr". According
				to RFC 5646, <cite>Tags for Identifying Languages,</cite> language codes are case
				insensitive.</p>
		</section> 
	 <section id="recommended-use-topics">
			<title>Recommended use in topics</title>
			<p>For a DITA topic that contains a single language, set the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt>
				attribute on the highest-level element that contains content.</p>
			<draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="04 July 2019" audience="tc-reviewers">
				<p>Should the following paragraph contain a <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
						>SHOULD</term> statement?</p>
			</draft-comment>
			<!--IGNORE may-must-should word-->
			<p>When a DITA topic contains more than one language, set the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute
				on the highest-level element to specify the <term>primary language and locale</term>
				that applies to the topic. If part of a topic is written in a different language,
				authors should ensure that the part is enclosed in an element with the
					<xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute set appropriately. This method of overriding
				the default document language applies to both block and inline elements that use the
				alternate language.</p>
			<p>Processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> style each element in a way
				that is appropriate for its language as identified by the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt>
				attribute.</p>
		</section> 
	 <section id="recommended-use-maps">
			<title>Recommended use in maps</title>
			<p>The <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute can be specified on the <xmlelement>map</xmlelement>
				element. The <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute cascades within the map in the same
				way that it cascades within a topic. However, since the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt>
				attribute is an inherent property of the XML document, the value of the
					<xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute does not cascade from one map to another or
				from a map to a topic; the value of the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute that is
				specified in a map does not override <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> values that are
				specified in other maps or in topics.</p>
			<p>The primary language for the map <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term>
				be set on the <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element. The specified language remains
				in effect for all child <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements, unless a child
				specifies a different value for the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute. </p>
			<p>When no <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> value is supplied locally or on an ancestor, a
				processor-determined default value is assumed.</p>
		</section> 
	 <section id="recommended-use-with-conref">
			<title>Recommended use with the <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt>
				attribute</title>
			<p>When a <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attribute is used to
				include content from one element into another, the processor <term
					outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> use the effective value of
				the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute from the referenced element, that is, the
				element that contains the content. If the referenced element does not have an
				explicit value for the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute, the processor <term
					outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> default to using the same
				value that is used for topics that do not set the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt>
				attribute. </p>
			<p>This behavior is shown in the following example, where the value of the
					<xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute of the included note is obtained from its
				parent <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> element that sets the
					<xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute to "fr". When the
					<filepath>installingAcme.dita</filepath> topic is processed, the
					<xmlelement>note</xmlelement> element with the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute set
				to "mynote" has an effective value for the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute of
				"fr". </p>
			<fig>
				<title><filepath>installingAcme.dita</filepath></title>
				<codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0"?>
&lt;!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
&lt;task xml:lang="en" id="install_acme">
 &lt;title>Installing Acme&lt;/title>
 &lt;shortdesc>Step-by-step details about how to install Acme.&lt;/shortdesc>
 &lt;taskbody>
   &lt;prereq>
   &lt;p>Special notes when installing Acme in France:&lt;/p>
   &lt;note <ph >id="mynote"</ph> conref="warningsAcme.dita#topic_warnings/frenchwarnings"/>
  &lt;/prereq>
 &lt;/taskbody>
&lt;/task>
</codeblock>
			</fig>
			<fig>
				<title><filepath>warningsAcme.dita</filepath></title>
				<codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0"?>
&lt;!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
&lt;topic id="topic_warnings">
 &lt;title>Warnings&lt;/title>
 &lt;body>
  &lt;section id="qqwwee" xml:lang="fr">
   &lt;title>French warnings&lt;/title>
   &lt;p>These are our French warnings.&lt;/p>
   &lt;note id="frenchwarnings">Note in French!&lt;/note>
  &lt;/section>
  &lt;section xml:lang="en">
   &lt;title>English warnings&lt;/title>
   &lt;p>These are our English warnings.&lt;/p>
   &lt;note id="englishwarnings">Note in English!&lt;/note>
  &lt;/section>
 &lt;/body>
&lt;/topic>
</codeblock>
			</fig>
		</section> 
  </refbody> 
</reference> 
