<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="xsd-requirements-overview">
 <title>XML Schema: Overview and limitations of coding requirements</title>
 <shortdesc>DITA coding practices for XML Schema rely on the XSD redefine facility in order to
  implement specializations or constraints. However, limitations in the redefine facility can
  present problems for some DITA modules implemented in XML Schema.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>Specializations and constraints in XML Schema are implemented using the XSD
    <xmlelement>xs:redefine</xmlelement> facility. However, this facility does not allow sequence
   groups to be directly constrained. Thus, to support both specialization and constraints, it might
   be necessary to refactor content models into named groups that can be redefined. In order to keep
   the XSD, RELAX NG, and DTD implementations as consistent as possible, the DITA Technical
   Committee only refactored those content models that were required for OASIS-provided <ph
    >grammars, the strict task body and machinery-industry task</ph>. The other DITA
   content models distributed by OASIS have not been refactored.</p>
  <p>You <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> modify OASIS-provided XSD modules
   to refactor content models if required by your constraint. You <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
    >SHOULD</term> notify the DITA Technical Committee (TC) of your constraint
   requirements, so the TC can consider adding the required refactoring to the OASIS-provided
   XSDs.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
