<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="map" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>map</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc id="shortdesc">A DITA map is the mechanism for aggregating
    topic references and defining a context for those references. It
    contains references to topics, maps, and other resources.<ph
      platform="dita"> These references are organized into hierarchies,
      groups, and tables.</ph></shortdesc>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="02 December 2021">
        <p>Most of the information below was authored for DITA 1.0 and
          subsequently edited.</p>
        <p>Zoe Lawson identified a key problem with this information; it
          does not discuss key definition or key resolution. If this
          section is going to contain all this info about navigation
          relationships, then it really also needs to discuss keys.</p>
        <p>And then the example should illustrate not just a DITA map
          creating navigational hierarchy, but also a map that references a
          key-definition map.</p>
      </draft-comment>
      <div platform="dita">
        <p>A map describes the relationships among a set of DITA topics.
          The following are some types of relationships that can be
          described in a map:</p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Hierarchical</dt>
            <dd>Nested topics create a hierarchical relationship. The topic that does the nesting is
              the parent, and the topics that are nested are the children.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Ordered</dt>
            <dd>Child topics can be labeled as having an ordered relationship, which means they are
              referenced in a definite sequence.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Family</dt>
            <dd>Child topics can be labeled as having a family relationship, which means they all
              refer to each other.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <p rev="review-b">In addition, a DITA map can contain relationship
          tables. Relationship tables can define relationships between
          resources that are not directly related based on their location
          in the navigation structure.</p>
      </div>
      <p platform="lwdita">A map describes the relationships among a set of DITA topics. Nested
        topics create a hierarchical relationship. The topic that does the nesting is the parent,
        and the topics that are nested are the children.</p>
      <div id="titles-in-maps">
        <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="10 November 2021">
          <p>I moved this content about titles in maps from "Rendering
            expectations," where I do not think it belonged. I think we
            probably ought to be clearer about the scenarios in which
            titles are rendered; certainly users get confused about this.
            And do we cover processing expectations for submaps
            somewhere?</p>
        </draft-comment>
        <p platform="dita">The <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element can
          be used to provide a title for the map. In some scenarios the
          title is purely informational and is present only as an aid to
          the author. In other scenarios, the title might be useful or even
          required. In a map referenced by another map, the title might be
          discarded as topics from the submap are aggregated into a larger
          publication.</p>
        <p platform="lwdita">The title component can be used to provide a
          title for the map. In some scenarios the title is purely
          informational and is present only as an aid to the author. In
          other scenarios, the title might be useful or even required. In a
          map referenced by another map, the title might be discarded as
          topics from the submap are aggregated into a larger
          publication.</p>
      </div>
    </section>
    <section id="rendering-expectations">
      <title>Rendering expectations</title>
      <p>When rendering a map, processors might make use of the
        relationships defined in the map to create a table of contents
        (TOC), aggregate topics into a PDF document, or create links
        between topics in the output.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <div>
        <p platform="dita">The following attributes are available on this element: <ph
            conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-universalatts"/>, <ph
            conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-commonmapatts"/>, <ph
            conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-architecturalatts"/>, <xref
            keyref="attributes-common/attr-type"><xmlatt>type</xmlatt></xref>, <xref
            keyref="attributes-common/attr-scope"><xmlatt>scope</xmlatt></xref>, and <xref
            keyref="attributes-common/attr-format"><xmlatt>format</xmlatt></xref>.</p>
        <p platform="lwdita">The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
            keyref="attributes-universal/attr-id"><xmlatt>id</xmlatt></xref>, <ph
            conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-architecturalatts"/>, <ph
            conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-localizationatts"/>, <xref
            keyref="attributes-universal/class"><xmlatt>class</xmlatt></xref>, and <xref
            keyref="attributes-universal/outputclass"><xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt></xref>.</p>
      </div>
    </section>
</refbody>
</reference>

