<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="section" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>section</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc id="shortdesc" platform="dita lwdita">A section is an
    organizational division in a topic. Sections are used to organize
    subsets of information that are directly related to the
    topic.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p platform="dita lwdita">Multiple sections within a single topic do
        not represent a hierarchy, but rather peer divisions of that topic.
        Sections cannot be nested. <ph rev="review-c">Sections can have
          titles.</ph></p>
      <note platform="dita">For maximum flexibility in creating
        specializations, sections allow plain text as well as phrase and
        block level elements. Because of the way XML grammars are defined
        within a DTD, any element that allows plain text cannot restrict
        the order or frequency of other elements. As a result, the
          <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> element allows
          <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> to appear anywhere as a child of
          <xmlelement>section</xmlelement>. However, the intent of the
        specification is that <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> only be used
        once in any <xmlelement>section</xmlelement>, and when used, that
        it precede any other text or element content.</note>
    </section>
    <section id="rendering-expectations">
      <title>Rendering expectations</title>
      <p platform="dita">Processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> treat the presence of
        more than one <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element in a <xmlelement>section</xmlelement>
        element as an error.</p>
      <p platform="lwdita">Processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> treat the presence
        of more than one title component in a section component as an error.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p platform="dita">The following attributes are available on this element: <ph
          conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-universalatts"/>.</p>
      <div platform="lwdita">
        <p>The following attributes are available on this element:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>Localization attributes</li>
          <li>Filter attributes</li>
          <li>Reuse attributes</li>
          <li><xmlatt>class</xmlatt></li>
          <li><xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt>.</li>
        </ul>
      </div>
    </section>
</refbody>
</reference>

