<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="video">
  <title><xmlelement>video</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc id="shortdesc" platform="dita lwdita">A video is a recording
    of moving visual
    images.<!--A video object references moving visual media.--></shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <div platform="dita">
        <p>The <xmlelement>video</xmlelement> element is modeled on the HTML5
            <xmlelement>video</xmlelement> element.</p>
        <p>A video resource can be referenced by <xmlatt>href</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt>, and
          nested <xmlelement>media-source</xmlelement> elements.</p>
        <p><ph rev="review-a">Playback behaviors</ph> such as auto-playing,
          looping, and muting are determined by attributes. When not
          specified, the default behavior is determined by the user agent
          that is used to present the media.</p>
      </div>
      <div platform="lwdita">
        <p>The video component is modeled on the HTML5 <xmlelement>video</xmlelement> element.</p>
        <p>A video resource can be referenced by <xmlatt>href</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt>, and
          nested media-source components.</p>
        <p>Playback behaviors such as auto-playing, looping, and muting are
          determined by attributes. When not specified, the default
          behavior is determined by the user agent that is used to present
          the media.</p>
      </div>
    </section>
    <section id="rendering-expectations">
      <title>Rendering expectations</title>
      <p platform="dita lwdita">The video resource typically is rendered in
        the main flow of the content.</p>
      <p platform="dita lwdita">Processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
          >SHOULD</term> scale the video resource when values are provided
        for the <xmlatt>height</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>width</xmlatt>
        attributes. The following expectations apply:<ul>
          <li>If a height value is specified and no width value is
            specified, processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
              >SHOULD</term> scale the width by the same factor as the
            height.</li>
          <li>If a width value is specified and no height value is
            specified, processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
              >SHOULD</term> scale the height by the same factor as the
            width.</li>
          <li>If both a height value and width value are specified,
            implementations <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> ignore
            one of the two values when they are unable to scale to each
            direction using different factors.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p platform="dita lwdita">When a video resource cannot be rendered in
        a meaningful way, processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
          >SHOULD</term> render the contents of the
          <xmlelement>fallback</xmlelement> element, if it is present.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <div platform="dita">
        <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <ph
            conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-universalatts"/>, <xref
            keyref="attributes-common/attr-format"/>, <xref
            keyref="attributes-common/attr-href"/>, <xref
            keyref="attributes-common/attr-keyref"/>, <xref
            keyref="attributes-common/attr-scope"/>, and the attributes
          defined below.</p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt id="attr-autoplay"><xmlatt>autoplay</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Specifies whether the resource automatically plays when it
              is presented. The following values are recognized:
                <keyword>true</keyword>, <keyword>false</keyword>, and
                <keyword>-dita-use-conref-target </keyword>. The default
              value is <keyword>true</keyword>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt id="attr-controls"><xmlatt>controls</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Specifies whether the presentation of the resource includes
              user interface controls. The following values are recognized:
                <keyword>true</keyword>, <keyword>false</keyword>, and
                <keyword>-dita-use-conref-target </keyword>. The default
              value is <keyword>true</keyword>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt id="attr-height"><xmlatt>height</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Indicates the vertical dimension for the resulting display.
                <ph
                conref="../conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/height-width-units"
              /></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt id="attr-loop"><xmlatt>loop</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Specifies whether the resource loops when played. The
              following values are recognized: <keyword>true</keyword>,
                <keyword>false</keyword>, and
                <keyword>-dita-use-conref-target </keyword>. The default
              value is <keyword>true</keyword>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt id="attr-muted"><xmlatt>muted</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Specifies whether the resource is muted. The following
              values are recognized: <keyword>true</keyword>,
                <keyword>false</keyword>, and
                <keyword>-dita-use-conref-target </keyword>. The default
              value is <keyword>true</keyword>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt id="attr-poster"><xmlatt>poster</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Specifies the absolute or relative URI of the image that is
              rendered before video playback begins.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt id="attr-posterkeyref"><xmlatt>posterkeyref</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Specifies a key reference for the poster image.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry platform="dita">
            <dt id="attr-tabindex"><xmlatt>tabindex</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd><draft-comment author="rodaande">Need to add the linked
                version of the HTML spec into our
                resources.</draft-comment>Specifies whether the video
              resource can be focused and where it participates in
              sequential keyboard navigation. See <xref
                href="https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#the-tabindex-attribute"
                format="html" scope="external"
                ><xmlatt>tabindex</xmlatt></xref> in the HTML specification
              (WHATWG version).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt id="attr-width"><xmlatt>width</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Indicates the horizontal dimension for the resulting
              display. <ph
                conref="../conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/height-width-units"
              /></dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </div>
      <div platform="lwdita">
        <codeblock>&lt;!ATTLIST video
              autoplay     (true | false )    #IMPLIED
              controls     (true | false )    #IMPLIED
              loop         (true |false )     #IMPLIED
              muted        (true |false )     #IMPLIED
              poster        CDATA             #IMPLIED
              posterkeyref  CDATA             #IMPLIED
              tabindex      NMTOKEN           #IMPLIED
              %localization;
              %filters;
              %reference-content;
              %reuse;
              outputclass  CDATA              #IMPLIED
              height     NMTOKEN              #IMPLIED
              width      NMTOKEN              #IMPLIED
              class CDATA "- topic/video "></codeblock>
      </div>
      <p id="attr-exception" outputclass="attr-exception" rev="review-a"
        >For this element: <ul id="ul_xxx_hd4_qpb">
          <li>The <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute specifies the MIME type
            for the resource. This attribute enables processors to avoid
            loading unsupported resources. If <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> is
            not specified and <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> is specified, the
            effective type for the key named by the <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt>
            attribute is used as the value. If an explicit
              <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> is not specified on either the
              <xmlelement>video</xmlelement> element or key definition,
            processors can use other means, such the URI file extension, to
            determine the effective MIME type of the resource.</li>
          <li>The <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute specifies the absolute or
            relative URI of the video resource. If <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> is
            specified, also specify
            <xmlatt>format</xmlatt>.<!--KJE: RDA and I discussed this on 29 April 2019. We could not come up with a phrasing that would not include "should". Adding this comment so that we don't have the discussion again.--></li>
        </ul></p>
      <div conkeyref="lwattr/video" platform="lwdita"/>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
