<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="media-track">
  <title><xmlelement>media-track</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc id="shortdesc" platform="dita lwdita">Media track settings
    specify the location of supplemental, text-based data for the
    referenced media, for example, subtitles or descriptions.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p platform="dita lwdita">The media track settings are modeled on the
          <xmlelement>track</xmlelement> element used in HTML5 media
        elements. They refer to track resources that use <xref
          href="https://www.w3.org/TR/webvtt1/" format="html"
          scope="external">Web Video Text Track Format (WebVTT)</xref>. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p platform="dita">The following attributes are available on this
        element: <ph><xref
            href="../../langRef/attributes/universalAttributes.dita"
            >universal attributes<desc>Universal attributes include:
                <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>base</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>class</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>conaction</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt>,
              <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>id</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>importance</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>product</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>props</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>rev</xmlatt>,
                <xmlatt>status</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>translate</xmlatt>, and
                <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt></desc></xref></ph>, <xref
          href="../../langRef/attributes/commonAttributes.dita#common-atts/attr-format"
        />, <xref
          href="../../langRef/attributes/commonAttributes.dita#common-atts/attr-href"
        />, <xref
          href="../../langRef/attributes/commonAttributes.dita#common-atts/attr-keyref"
        />, <xref
          href="../../langRef/attributes/commonAttributes.dita#common-atts/attr-scope"
        />, and the attributes defined below.</p>
      <p platform="lwdita">The following attributes are available on this
        element: <ph><xref
            href="../../langRef/attributes/attribute-groups.dita#attribute-groups/id-attributes"
            >ID attributes<desc>ID and conref attributes include
                <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> and
            <xmlatt>id</xmlatt>.</desc></xref></ph>, <ph><xref
            href="../../langRef/attributes/attribute-groups.dita#attribute-groups/localization-attributes"
            >localization attributes<desc>Localization attributes include
                <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>translate</xmlatt>, and
                <xmlatt>xml:lang.</xmlatt></desc></xref></ph>, <ph><xref
            href="../../langRef/attributes/attribute-groups.dita#attribute-groups/universal-attributes"
            >universal attributes<desc>Universal attributes include
                <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> and
              <xmlatt>outputclass.</xmlatt>.</desc></xref></ph>, <xref
          href="../../langRef/attributes/lwdita-common-attributes.dita#lwdita-common-attributes/keyref"
            ><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></xref>, and the attributes listed
        below.</p>
      <dl platform="dita lwdita">
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="attr-kind"><xmlatt>kind</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the usage for the track resource. This attribute is
            modeled on the <xmlatt>kind</xmlatt> attribute on the HTML5
              <xmlelement>track</xmlelement> element, as described by the
              <xref
              href="https://html.spec.whatwg.org/dev/media.html#dom-TrackList-getKind-categories"
              format="html" scope="external"><cite>HTML specification,
                WHATWG version</cite></xref>. The values for this attribute
            are derived from the HTML5 standard:<dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>captions</dt>
                <dd>Transcription or translation of the dialogue, sound
                  effects, relevant musical cues, and other relevant audio
                  information. This is intended for use when the soundtrack
                  is unavailable, for example, because it is muted or
                  because the user is hard-of-hearing. This information is
                  rendered over the video and labeled as appropriate for
                  hard-of-hearing users.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>chapters</dt>
                <dd>Chapter titles, which are intended to be used for
                  navigating the media resource. The chapter titles are
                  rendered as an interactive list in the interface for the
                  user agent.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>descriptions</dt>
                <dd>Textual descriptions of the video component of the
                  media resource. This is intended for audio synthesis when
                  the visual component is unavailable, for example, because
                  the user is interacting with the application without a
                  screen or because the user is blind. Descriptions are
                  synthesized as separate audio tracks.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>metadata</dt>
                <dd>Tracks intended for use from script. This metadata is
                  not displayed by the user agent.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>subtitles</dt>
                <dd>Transcription or translation of the dialogue, suitable
                  for when the sound is available but not understood, for
                  example, because the user does not understand the
                  language of the soundtrack. Subtitles are rendered over
                  the video.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry platform="dita">
                <dt>-dita-use-conref-target</dt>
                <dd>See <xref
                    href="../../archSpec/base/ditauseconreftarget.dita"/>
                  for more information. </dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="attr-srclang"><xmlatt>srclang</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the language of the track resource.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <p outputclass="attr-exception" rev="review-a" platform="dita lwdita"
        >For this element, the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute specifies
        the URI of the track resource.</p>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
