<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="fn" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>fn</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc id="shortdesc" platform="dita lwdita">A footnote is ancillary
    information that typically is rendered in the footer of a page or at
    the end of an online article. Such content is usually inappropriate for
    inline inclusion.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>There are two types of footnotes: <term>single-use footnote</term> and
          <term>use-by-reference footnote</term>.</p>
      <div platform="dita">
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Single-use footnote</dt>
            <dd>This is produced by a <xmlelement>fn</xmlelement> element that does not specify a
              value for the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Use-by-reference footnote</dt>
            <dd>This is produced by a <xmlelement>fn</xmlelement> element that specifies a value for
              the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute. It must be used in conjunction with an
                <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> element with <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> set to
                <keyword>fn</keyword>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <p>To reference a footnote that is located in another topic, the conref or conkeyref
          mechanism is used.</p>
      </div>
      <div platform="lwdita">
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Single-use footnote</dt>
            <dd>This is produced by a footnote component that does not specify a value for the
                <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Use-by-reference footnote</dt>
            <dd>This is produced by a footnote component that specifies a value for the
                <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute. It must be used in conjunction with a cross reference
              component with <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> set to <keyword>fn</keyword>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <p>To reference a footnote that is located in another topic, the conkeyref mechanism is
          used.</p>
      </div>
    </section>
    <section id="rendering-expectations">
      <title>Rendering expectations</title>
      <p>The two footnote types typically produce different types of output:</p>
      <div>
        <dl platform="dita">
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Single-use footnote</dt>
            <dd>When rendered, a superscript symbol (numeral or character) is produced at the
              location of the <xmlelement>fn</xmlelement> element. The superscript symbol is
              hyperlinked to the content of the footnote, which is placed at the bottom of a PDF
              page or the end of an online article. The superscript symbol can be specified by the
              value of the <xmlatt>callout</xmlatt> attribute. When no <xmlatt>callout</xmlatt>
              value is specified, footnotes are typically numbered.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Use-by-reference footnote</dt>
            <dd>Nothing is rendered at the location of the <xmlelement>fn</xmlelement> element. The
              content of a use-by-reference footnote is only rendered when it is referenced by an
                <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> with the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute set to
                <keyword>fn</keyword>. If an <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> with the
                <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute set to <keyword>fn</keyword> is present, a
              superscript symbol is rendered at the location of the <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement>
              element. Unless conref or conkeyref is used, the <xmlelement>fn</xmlelement> and
                <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> must be located in the same topic.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </div>
      <div>
        <dl platform="lwdita">
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Single-use footnote</dt>
            <dd>When rendered, a superscript symbol (numeral or character) is produced at the
              location of the footnote component. The superscript symbol is hyperlinked to the
              content of the footnote, which is placed at the bottom of a PDF page or the end of an
              online article. The superscript symbol can be specified by the value of the
                <xmlatt>callout</xmlatt> attribute. When no <xmlatt>callout</xmlatt> value is
              specified, footnotes are typically numbered.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Use-by-reference footnote</dt>
            <dd>Nothing is rendered at the location of the footnote component. The content of a
              use-by-reference footnote is only rendered when it is referenced by a cross reference
              with the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute set to <keyword>fn</keyword>. If a cross
              reference with the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute set to <keyword>fn</keyword> is
              present, a superscript symbol is rendered at the location of the cross reference
              component. Unless conkeyref is used, the footnote and cross reference components must
              be located in the same topic.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </div>
      <p>However, the details of footnote processing and formatting are implementation dependent.
        For example, a tool that renders DITA as PDF might lack support for the
          <xmlatt>callout</xmlatt> attribute, or footnotes might be collected as end notes for
        certain types of publications.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-universalatts"/> and the attribute defined below.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="callout">
          <dt id="attr-callout"><xmlatt>callout</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the character <ph rev="review-c">or character
              string</ph> that is used for the footnote link</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
</refbody>
</reference>

