<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="shortdesc" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc id="shortdesc">A short description describes the purpose or main point of a
    topic.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <dl platform="lwdita">
        <dlentry>
          <dt>XDITA</dt>
          <dd>&lt;shortdesc></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>HDITA</dt>
          <dd>First element in article, if it is a paragraph, after title</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>MDITA (core and extended profiles)</dt>
          <dd>First block, if it is a paragraph, after title </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <p>When present in topics, the short description is the first paragraph of the topic. It also
        is used for link previews and search results.</p>
      <div platform="dita">
        <p>When present in maps, the <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element is associated with
            <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements. This enables map authors to accomplish the
          following goals:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>Associate a short description with a non-DITA object.</li>
          <li>Provide a short description that is specific to the map context and used for link
            previews.</li>
          <li>Override the short description located in the associated DITA topic, when the
              <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute is specified. Processors might not implement this
              behavior.<p>When a <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element applies to an entire
              DITA map, it serves as description only.</p></li>
        </ul>
      </div>
    </section>
    <section id="rendering-expectations">
      <title>Rendering expectations</title>
      <p>Processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> render the content of the <keyword
          keyref="variable-shortdesc-element"/> as the initial paragraph of the topic.</p>
      <p platform="dita">When processors generate link previews that are based on the map context,
        they <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> use the content of the
          <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> that is located in the map rather than the
          <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> that is located in the DITA topic. However, processors
          <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> use the content of the
          <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element in the DITA topic when they render the topic
        itself, unless the <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute is specified on the topic reference to
        the element.</p>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>

