<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="audio">
  <title><xmlelement>audio</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc id="shortdesc">Audio is sound that the human ear is capable of
    hearing.<!--An audio object references a sound or audio stream.--></shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <div platform="dita">
        <p>The <xmlelement>audio</xmlelement> element is modeled on the HTML5
            <xmlelement>audio</xmlelement> element.</p>
        <p>An audio resource can be referenced by <xmlatt>href</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt>,
          and nested <xmlelement>media-source</xmlelement> elements.</p>
        <p>Playback behaviors such as auto-playing, looping, and muting are
          determined by attributes. When not specified, the default
          behavior is determined by the user agent that is used to present
          the media.</p>
      </div>
      <div platform="lwdita">
        <p>The audio component is modeled on the HTML5 <xmlelement>audio</xmlelement> element.</p>
        <p>An audio resource can be referenced by <xmlatt>href</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt>,
          and nested media-source components.</p>
        <p>Behaviors such as auto-playing, looping, and muting are determined by attributes. When
          not specified, the default behavior is determined by the user agent that is used to
          present the media.</p>
      </div>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="16 November 2021"
        audience="tc-reviewers">
        <p>Need to add the following definition to spec terminology:</p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>user agent</dt>
            <dd>Software that retrieves and presents web content for end
              users or is implemented using Web technologies. User agents
              include web browsers, media players, and plug-ins, as well as
              operating system shells and web-enabled consumer
              electronics.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </draft-comment>
    </section>
    <section id="rendering-expectations" platform="dita">
      <title>Rendering expectations</title>
      <p>When an audio resource cannot be rendered in a meaningful way, processors <term
          outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> present the contents of the
          <xmlelement>fallback</xmlelement> element, if it is present.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <div platform="dita">
        <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-universalatts"/> and the attributes defined below.</p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt id="attr-autoplay"><xmlatt>autoplay</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Specifies whether the resource automatically plays when it is presented. The
              following values are recognized: <keyword>true</keyword>, <keyword>false</keyword>,
              and <keyword>-dita-use-conref-target </keyword>. The default value is
                <keyword>true</keyword>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt id="attr-controls"><xmlatt>controls</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Specifies whether the presentation of the resource includes user interface controls.
              The following values are recognized: <keyword>true</keyword>,
              <keyword>false</keyword>, and <keyword>-dita-use-conref-target </keyword>. The default
              value is <keyword>true</keyword>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry platform="dita">
            <dt id="attr-format"><xmlatt>format</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Specifies the MIME type for the resource. This attribute
              enables processors to avoid loading unsupported resources. If
                <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> is not specified and
                <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> is specified, the effective type
              for the key named by the <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute is
              used as the value. If an explicit <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> is
              not specified on either the <xmlelement>audio</xmlelement>
              element or key definition, processors can use other means,
              such as the URI file extension, to determine the effective
              MIME type of the resource.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt id="attr-href"><xmlatt>href</xmlatt></dt>
            <!--KJE: RDA and I discussed this on 29 April 2019. We could not come up with a phrasing that would not include "should". Adding this comment so that we don't have the discussion again.-->
            <dd>Specifies the absolute or relative URI of the audio resource. If
                <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> is specified, specify <xmlatt>format</xmlatt>
              also.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt id="attr-keyref"><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Specifies a key reference to the audio resource.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt id="attr-loop"><xmlatt>loop</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Specifies whether the resource loops when played. The following values are
              recognized: <keyword>true</keyword>, <keyword>false</keyword>, and
                <keyword>-dita-use-conref-target </keyword>. The default value is
                <keyword>true</keyword>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt id="attr-muted"><xmlatt>muted</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Specifies whether the resource is muted. The following values are recognized:
                <keyword>true</keyword>, <keyword>false</keyword>, and
                <keyword>-dita-use-conref-target </keyword>. The default value is
                <keyword>true</keyword>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt id="attr-scope"><xmlatt>scope</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Specifies the closeness of the relationship between the
              current document and the target resource. Resources in the
              same information unit are considered
              <codeph>"local"</codeph>; resources in the same system as the
              referencing content but not part of the same information unit
              are considered <codeph>"peer"</codeph>; and resources outside
              the system, such as Web pages, are considered
                <codeph>"external"</codeph>.</dd>
            <dd>
              <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein"
                time="20 November 2021">
                <p>In the DITAweb review of this topic, Nancy Harrison
                  asked what we meant by an "information unit" in this
                  context. Is it a topic? Map? Submap?</p>
                <p>Same consideration would apply to the video topic.</p>
              </draft-comment>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt id="attr-tabindex"><xmlatt>tabindex</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Specifies whether the audio resource can be focused and where it participates in
              sequential keyboard navigation. See <xref
                href="https://html.spec.whatwg.org/dev/interaction.html#the-tabindex-attribute"
                format="html" scope="external"><xmlatt>tabindex</xmlatt></xref> in the HTML
              specification (WHATWG version).</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </div>
      <p platform="lwdita">The following attributes are available on this element: <ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-universalatts"/>.<draft-comment author="rodaande">This needs to be examined
          in line of the element moving into the base vocabulary; likely, some additional attributes
          are now present.</draft-comment></p>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
