<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="media-source">
  <title><xmlelement>media-source</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc id="shortdesc">The media source specifies the location of an audio or video
    resource.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>The media source is modeled on the <xmlelement>source</xmlelement> element used in HTML5
        media elements.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="rendering-expectations">
      <title>Rendering expectations</title>
      <p platform="dita">When multiple <xmlelement>media-source</xmlelement> elements are present,
        the user agent evaluates them in document order and selects the first resource that can be
        played.</p>
      <p platform="lwdita">When multiple <xmlelement>media-source</xmlelement> components are
        present, the user agent evaluates them in document order and selects the first resource that
        can be played.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <div platform="dita">
        <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
            keyref="attributes-universal"/> and the attributes defined below.</p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry platform="dita">
            <dt><xmlatt>format</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Specifies the format of the resource being addressed.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlatt>href</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Specifies the URI of the media resource.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Specifies a key reference to the media resource.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlatt>scope</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>The <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> attribute describes the closeness of the relationship
              between the current document and the target resource. Resources in the same
              information unit are considered <codeph>"local"</codeph>; resources in the same system
              as the referencing content but not part of the same information unit are considered
                <codeph>"peer"</codeph>; and resources outside the system, such as Web pages, are
              considered <codeph>"external"</codeph>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </div>
      <div platform="lwdita">
        <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
            keyref="attributes-universal/localizationatts"/>, <xref keyref="attributes-universal/class"
              ><xmlatt>class</xmlatt></xref>, <xref keyref="attributes-universal/outputclass"
              ><xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt></xref>, and the attributes defined below.</p>
        <draft-comment author="Robert">Need to update these atts now that the element is part of the
          base vocabulary.</draft-comment>
        <dl>
          <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/media-source-name">
            <dt><xmlatt>name</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>The value is fixed to <keyword>source</keyword>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/media-source-value">
            <dt><xmlatt>value</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>Specifies the URL of the media resource.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </div>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
