<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="image" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>image</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc id="shortdesc">An image is a reference to artwork that is stored outside of the
    content. </shortdesc>
<refbody>
    <section id="rendering-expectations">
      <title>Rendering expectations</title>
      <p>The referenced  image typically is rendered in the main flow of the content.</p>
      <p conkeyref="rendering/image-video"/>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p platform="dita">The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          keyref="attributes-universal"/>, <xref keyref="attributes-common/attr-href"/>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-common/attr-format"/>, <xref keyref="attributes-common/attr-scope"/>,
          <xref keyref="attributes-keyref"><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></xref>, and the attributes
        defined below.</p>
      <p platform="lwdita"><draft-comment author="robander">href, format, and scope were moved from
          the DL (marked for both lwdita and dita) into the paragraph above for full DITA; not sure
          if they apply to lwdita, if so, the three should be listed here as
        well.</draft-comment>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          keyref="attributes-universal/localizationatts"/>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-universal/class"><xmlatt>class</xmlatt></xref>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-keyref"><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></xref>, and <xref
          keyref="attributes-universal/outputclass"><xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt></xref>.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-align"><xmlatt>align</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Controls the horizontal alignment of an image when <xmlatt>placement</xmlatt> is
            specified as <keyword>break</keyword>. Common values include <keyword>left</keyword>,
              <keyword>right</keyword>, and <keyword>center</keyword>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="attr-height"><xmlatt>height</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Indicates the vertical dimension for the resulting display. The value of this
            attribute is a real number (expressed in decimal notation) optionally followed by a unit
            of measure from the set of pc, pt, px, in, cm, mm, em (picas, points, pixels, inches,
            centimeters, millimeters, and ems respectively). The default unit is px (pixels).
            Example values include <keyword>5</keyword>, <keyword>5in</keyword>, and
              <keyword>10.5cm</keyword>. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-placement"><xmlatt>placement</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Indicates whether an image is displayed inline or on a separate line. The default
            value is inline. Allowable values are <keyword>inline</keyword>,
              <keyword>break</keyword>, and <xref keyref="attributes-useconreftarget"
              >"-dita-use-conref-target"</xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-scale"><xmlatt>scale</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies a percentage as an unsigned integer by which to scale the image in the
            absence of any specified image height or width; a value of 100 implies that the image
            should be presented at its intrinsic size. If a value has been specified for the
              <xmlatt>height</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>width</xmlatt> attribute (or both), the
              <xmlatt>scale</xmlatt> attribute is ignored.<p>It is an error if the value of this
              attribute is not an unsigned integer. In this case, the implementation might give an
              error message and might recover by ignoring this attribute. </p><draft-comment
              author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="13 July 2019" audience="spec-editors">
              <p>Should the above use RFC-2119 terminology? Be moved into "Rendering
                expectations"?</p>
            </draft-comment>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry platform="dita">
          <dt id="attr-scalefit"><xmlatt>scalefit</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Allows an image to be scaled up or down to fit within available space. Allowable
            values are <keyword>yes</keyword>, <keyword>no</keyword>, and <xref
              keyref="attributes-useconreftarget">"-dita-use-conref-target"</xref>. If
              <xmlatt>height</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>width</xmlatt>, or <xmlatt>scale</xmlatt> is
            specified, those attributes determine the graphic size, and the
              <xmlatt>scalefit</xmlatt> attribute is ignored. If none of those attributes are
            specified and <codeph>scalefit="yes"</codeph>, then the image is scaled (the same factor
            in both dimensions) so that the graphic will just fit within the available height or
            width (whichever is more constraining). <p>The available width would be the prevailing
              column (or table cell) width—that is, the width a paragraph of text would have if the
              graphic were a paragraph instead. The available height is implementation dependent,
              but if feasible, it is suggested to be the page (or table cell) height or some other
              reasonable value. </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="attr-width"><xmlatt>width</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Indicates the horizontal dimension for the resulting display. The value of this
            attribute is a real number (expressed in decimal notation) optionally followed by a unit
            of measure from the set of pc, pt, px, in, cm, mm, em (picas, points, pixels, inches,
            centimeters, millimeters, and ems respectively). The default unit is px (pixels).
            Example values include <keyword>5</keyword>, <keyword>5in</keyword>, and
              <keyword>10.5cm</keyword>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
</refbody>
</reference>
