<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="topicmeta" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title><xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc id="shortdesc">Topic metadata is metadata that applies to a topic based on its context
    in a map.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>elements<indexterm>basic map<indexterm><xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>examples<indexterm>maps<indexterm>audience
          definition</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>maps<indexterm>examples<indexterm>audience
            definition</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>metadata</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>metadata<indexterm>maps</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p platform="dita">The metadata specified in a <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element is
        specific to a given context within a map. If a reference to a single resource appears more
        than once in a map or set of maps, unique metadata can be specified in each instance. For
        example, when the parent <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element results in a link,
        elements within the <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element can be used to provide
        context-specific information about the link, such as link text, a short description, or a
        navigation title. </p>
      <p platform="lwdita">The metadata specified in a topicmeta component is specific to a given
        context within a map. If a reference to a single resource appears more than once in a map or
        set of maps, unique metadata can be specified in each instance. For example, when the parent
        topic reference results in a link, components within the topicmeta component can be used to
        provide context-specific information about the link, such as link text or a navigation
        title. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref keyref="attributes-universal"
        /> and the attribute defined below.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>lockmeta</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>Specifies whether the map metadata supplements or overrides the metadata that is
              specified in the topic. When the <xmlatt>lockmeta</xmlatt> attribute is set to "yes",
              the topic metadata is overriden. Allowable values are "yes", "no", and <xref
                keyref="attributes-useconreftarget"/>.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
