<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="linktext" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>linktext</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc id="shortdesc" platform="dita lwdita">Link text is the label
    for a link or resource.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p platform="dita">The <xmlelement>linktext</xmlelement> element
        provides descriptive text for a link. It is most commonly used when
        the target cannot be resolved during processing or when a title for
        the reference cannot be determined by a processor. For example,
        link text might be required when the link is to a peer, external,
        or non-DITA resource.</p>
      <p platform="lwdita">The link text component provides descriptive
        text for a link. It is most commonly used when the target cannot be
        resolved during processing or when a title for the reference cannot
        be determined by a processor. For example, link text might be
        required when the link is to a peer, external, or non-DITA
        resource.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="rendering-expectations">
      <title>Rendering expectations</title>
      <!--<draft-comment author="robander" time="14 May 2021">Pulled this from the "usage" section to have a clearer rendering statement, but it needs editing.</draft-comment><p>For processors that can automatically retrieve link text from a target, a specified <xmlelement>linktext</xmlelement> element is used instead of the retrieved link text.</p>-->
      <p>When a link contains a <xmlelement>linktext</xmlelement> element,
        the content of the <xmlelement>linktext</xmlelement> element is
        rendered instead of the text that retrieved from the resource.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p platform="dita">The following attributes are available on this element: <ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-universalatts"/>.</p>
      <p platform="lwdita">The following attributes are available on this element: <ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-localizationatts"/>, <xref keyref="attributes-universal/class"
            ><xmlatt>class</xmlatt></xref>, and <xref keyref="attributes-universal/outputclass"
            ><xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt></xref>.</p>
    </section>
</refbody>
</reference>
