<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="example" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>example</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc id="shortdesc">An example illustrates the subject of the topic or a portion of the
    topic.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="05 December 2021">
        <p>Zoe has asked that we revise the content of "Usage information"
          to be less programming related. Her comment:</p>
        <lq>This usage is super programming related. Isn't part of the
          reason we expanded where example can go is to be usable wherever
          for whatever? If you say for the usage I should have a code
          sample, I'm going to think I can't use this for other types of
          examples.</lq>
        <p>I think we also need to be clear that example can be part of a
          section, not just an element that is peer to a section.T This is
          a change from DITA 1.3, and while we don't want to call it out as
          such, the "Usage information" should make it clear where example
          can go in a topic.</p>
      </draft-comment>
      <p platform="dita">Use <xmlelement>example</xmlelement> to contain both sample code (or
        similar artifacts) and the discussion that illustrates the sample. For example, a topic
        about programming code could use the <xmlelement>example</xmlelement> element to contain
        both the sample code and the text that describes the code.</p>
      <!--next para should probably be "Use the example" or "Use an example" rather than "Use example"?-->
      <p platform="lwdita">Use example component to contain both sample code (or similar artifacts)
        and the discussion that illustrates the sample. For example, a topic about programming code
        could use the example component to contain both the sample code and the text that describes
        the code.</p>
    </section>
   
</refbody>
</reference>

