<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="IssueNumber00" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>DITA 2.0 proposed feature #00</title>
<shortdesc>Provide a short synopsis of the feature proposal.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
<section><title>Date and version information</title><p>Include the following information:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Date that this feature proposal was completed</dt>
<dd>xxx</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Champion of the proposal</dt>
<dd>xxx</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Links to any previous versions of the proposal</dt>
<dd>xxx</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Links to minutes where this proposal was discussed at stage 1 and moved to stage 2</dt>
<dd>xxx</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Reviewers for Stage 2 proposal</dt>
<dd>Reviews at this stage should ensure the template is completed before it goes to the TC for
discussion. For complex proposals, the first draft(s) of a stage 2 proposal will often have points
that still need to be worked out by the full TC; those points need to be addressed before voting to
stage 3, but that is not required for initial TC discussion.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Links to e-mail discussion that resulted in new versions of the proposal</dt>
<dd>xxx</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Link to the GitHub issue</dt>
<dd>xxx</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p></section>
<section><title>Original requirement or use case</title><p>Include a literal copy of the original requirement or use case that was presented to the TC; be
    sure to include the date that it was presented to the TC.</p></section>
<section><title>Use cases</title><p>Describe how the feature will be used, if ideally implemented. Include any presentation or
    processing expectations. </p></section>
<section rev="2.0">
<title>New terminology</title>
<p>If any new terminology is needed to define the proposed solution, call out each new term here and
provide a definition. Any new terminology will need to be used consistently across the entire
specification.</p>
</section>
  <section>
   <title>Proposed solution</title>
   <p>Provide an overview of how you expect to implement this feature or requirement.</p>
  </section>
<section><title>Benefits</title><p>Address the following questions:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Who will benefit from this feature?</dt>
<dd/>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>What is the expected benefit?</dt>
<dd>xxx</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>How many people probably will make use of this feature?</dt>
<dd>For example, everyone, many, or few.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>How much of a positive impact is expected for the users who will make use of the feature?</dt>
<dd>For example, significant or minor.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p></section>
<section><title>Technical requirements</title>
   <note type="important">This section must be complete in order for the proposal to be
    approved.</note><p>Provide a detailed description of how the solution will work. Be sure to include the following details:<dl>
     <dlentry>
      <dt>Adding new elements or attributes</dt>
      <dd>
       <dl>
        <dlentry>
         <dt>Adding a topic or map specialization</dt>
         <dd>Name of the new module, for example, <term>Glossary</term> or <term>Subject
scheme</term></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
         <dt>Adding a domain</dt>
         <dd>List of topic or map types that will include the domain</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
         <dt>Adding an element</dt>
         <dd>
<ul>
<li>Element name and attributes</li>
<li>Description of the element, including any processing requirements</li>
<li>Description of where the element will be permissable</li>
<li>Is the element translatable? If yes, is it a block or phrase (subflow) element?</li>
</ul>
</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
         <dt>Adding an attribute</dt>
         <dd>
<ul>
<li>Name of the attribute</li>
<li>Elements for which the attributes will apply, for example, "new global attribute for conref-atts
group" or "new specialized attribute for learning topics"</li>
<li>Processing expectations that are associated with the new attribute</li>
<li>Does the attribute contain translatable text? This should be avoided, so if the answer is "yes,"
you must explain why.</li>
</ul>
</dd>
        </dlentry>
       </dl>
      </dd>
     </dlentry>
<dlentry rev="2.0">
<dt>Renaming or refactoring elements and attributes</dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Renaming or refactoring an element</dt>
<dd>Include the current and new names of the element, the module that defines the element, and (if a
domain element) the default document type shells that will be affected. If any other changes will be
made to the element (new / removed attributes, modified content model, changed specialization
ancestry) list those as well.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Renaming or refactoring an attribute</dt>
<dd>
<ul>
<li>Include the current and new names of the attribute.</li>
<li>If values of the attribute change in any way, list the old and new values.</li>
<li>If the element applies to a small set of elements, list the elements; if it is part of a large
group of attributes (based on groupings in the DITA 1.3 specification <xref
href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dita/v1.3/errata01/os/complete/part1-base/langRef/attributes/attributes.html"
format="html" scope="external">section 3.10 Attributes</xref>), list the group.</li>
<li>If the attribute has a new or modified specialization ancestry, specify the change.</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry rev="2.0">
<dt>Removing elements or attributes</dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Removing a topic or map specialization</dt>
<dd>Name of the module to be removed, for example, <term>Glossary</term> or <term>Subject
scheme</term></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Removing a domain entirely, or from select document types</dt>
<dd>List of topic or map types that will remove the domain</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Removing an element</dt>
<dd>Include the name of the element, the module that defines the element, and (if a domain element)
the default document type shells that will be affected.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Removing an attribute</dt>
<dd>
<ul>
<li>Include the name of the attribute and the element that declares the element. If the attribute is
removed from a larger group, list the group.</li>
<li>If it is a specialized attribute, list the default document type shells that will be
affected.</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</dd>
</dlentry>
     <dlentry>
      <dt>Processing impact</dt>
      <dd>
       <ul>
        <li>How will the feature work?</li>
        <li>Will the feature have an impact on other processing features? For example, will the
         proposed feature have an impact on key resolution?</li>
<li>Will the feature have to be evaluated before or after any existing features?</li>
        <li>What edge cases need to be considered?</li>
       </ul>
      </dd>
     </dlentry>
    </dl><dl>
     <dlentry>
      <dt>Overall usability</dt>
      <dd>Discuss the impact to current DITA users. Discuss any set up that users will need to do to
       make use of this feature.</dd>
     </dlentry>
    </dl></p></section>
<section rev="2.0">
<title>Backwards compatibility</title>
<p>DITA 2.0 is the first DITA release that is open to changes affecting backwards compatibility. To
help highlight any impact, does this proposal involve any of the following?</p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Was this change previously announced in an earlier version of DITA?</dt>
<dd>If this change removes an already-deprecated element, attribute, or feature, please note when it
was deprecated.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Removing a document type that was shipped in DITA 1.3?</dt>
<dd>If so, which?</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Removing a domain that was shipped in DITA 1.3?</dt>
<dd>If so, which? What document types are affected?</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Removing a domain from a document type shell was shipped in DITA 1.3?</dt>
<dd>If a domain is still shipped but is no longer included in a (previously shipped) shell, what
document types are affected?</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Removing or renaming an element that was shipped in DITA 1.3?</dt>
<dd>If so, which, and from what module?</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Removing or renaming an attribute that was shipped in DITA 1.3?</dt>
<dd>If so, which, and from what elements?</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Changing the meaning of an element or attribute in a way that would disallow existing
usage?</dt>
<dd>If so, how does the definition change?</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Changing a content model by removing something that was previously allowed, or by requiring
something that was not?</dt>
<dd>What are the old and new content models?</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Changing specialization ancestry?</dt>
<dd>What are the old and new class attribute values?</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Removing or replacing a processing feature that was defined in DITA 1.3?</dt>
<dd>What is the feature that would be removed?</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Are element or attribute groups being renamed or shuffled?</dt>
<dd>What group is changing? Is the name changing, or is content being added / removed?</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</section>
<section rev="2.0">
<title>Migration plan</title>
<p>If the answer to any question in the previous section is "yes":</p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Might any existing documents need to be migrated?</dt>
<dd>If so, how would this likely be accomplished: <ul>
<li>Manual updates or search/replace within files?</li>
<li>Script or other automated process to be provided by owner of this proposal?</li>
<li>Expecting vendor tools to accommodate migration?</li>
<li>Other method?</li>
</ul></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Might any existing processors or implementations need to change their expectations?</dt>
<dd>...</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Might any existing specialization or constraint modules need to be migrated?</dt>
<dd>For example:<ul>
<li>Are elements or attributes removed or renamed, such that they also need to be adjusted in
specialization / constraint declarations?</li>
<li>Do content models change in a way that will impact existing specializations / constraints?</li>
<li>If specialization ancestry is changing, how likely is it that specializations of that element
exist and need to be updated?</li>
<li>Are content model groups (like <codeph>basic.block</codeph>) or attribute groups (like
<codeph>topicref.atts</codeph> or <codeph>univ.atts</codeph>) being renamed or shuffled in a way
that will affect their usage in specialization or constraint modules? Note: moving a common
attribute that is declared individually <i>into</i> such a group impacts specializations /
constraints, because they will now have to declare the attribute, or the group, but not both.</li>
<li>Is an element or attribute moving out of the base and into a new module, so that configured
grammar file shells must be updated to make use of it?</li>
</ul></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>If no migration need is anticipated, why not?</dt>
<dd>...</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</section>
  <section>
   <title>Costs</title>
   <p>Outline the impact (time and effort) of the feature on the following groups.</p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Maintainers of the grammar files</dt>
<dd>...</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Editors of the DITA specification</dt>
<dd>
<ul>
<li>How many new topics will be required?</li>
<li>How many existing topics will need to be edited?</li>
<li>Will the feature require substantial changes to the information architecture of the DITA
specification? If so, what?</li>
<li rev="2.0">If there is new terminology, is it likely to conflict with any usage of those terms in
the existing specification?</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Vendors of tools</dt>
<dd>XML editors, component content management systems, processors, etc.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>DITA community-at-large</dt>
<dd>
<ul>
<li>Will this feature add to the perception that DITA is becoming too complex?</li>
<li>Will it be simple for end users to understand?</li>
<li rev="2.0">If the feature breaks backwards compatibility, how many documents are likely to be
affected, and what is the cost of migration?</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Producing migration instructions or tools</dt>
<dd>
<ul>
<li>How extensive will migration instructions be, if it is integrated into an overall 1.3 → 2.0
migration publication or white paper?</li>
<li>Will this require an independent white paper or other publication to provide migration
details?</li>
<li>Do migration tools need to be created before this change can be made? If so, how complex will
those tools be to create and to use?</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
  </section>
<section><title>Examples</title><p>Provide examples of the proposed feature. Include an example for each of the use cases. Be sure
to include edge cases, if known.</p>
<p rev="2.0">If this proposal involves migration of existing DITA 1.3 content for compatibility with
DITA 2.0, give examples of valid content before and after migration.</p></section>
</refbody>
</reference><?Pub Caret -3?>
<?Pub *0000003625?>
