<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?workdir /C:\Git\dita\specification\temp\pdf\archSpec\base?><?workdir-uri file:/C:/Git/dita/specification/temp/pdf/archSpec/base/?><?path2project ..\..\?><?path2project-uri ../../?><?path2rootmap-uri ../../?><?doctype-public -//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN?><?doctype-system concept.dtd?><concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xmlns:dita-ot="http://dita-ot.sourceforge.net/ns/201007/dita-ot" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" domains="(topic concept) (topic abbrev-d) a(props deliveryTarget) (topic equation-d) (topic hazard-d) (topic hi-d) (topic indexing-d) (topic markup-d) (topic mathml-d) (topic pr-d) (topic relmgmt-d) (topic sw-d) (topic svg-d) (topic ui-d) (topic ut-d) (topic markup-d xml-d)" id="topicorientedwriting" xml:lang="en-US" xtrc="concept:1;4:53" xtrf="file:/C:/Git/dita/specification/archSpec/base/topicorientation.dita">
       <title class="- topic/title " xtrc="title:1;5:15" xtrf="file:/C:/Git/dita/specification/archSpec/base/topicorientation.dita">Disciplined, topic-oriented writing</title>
       <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc " xtrc="shortdesc:1;6:19" xtrf="file:/C:/Git/dita/specification/archSpec/base/topicorientation.dita">Topic-oriented writing is a disciplined approach to writing that emphasizes
              modularity and reuse of concise units of information: topics. Well-designed DITA
              topics can be reused in many contexts, as long as writers are careful to avoid
              unnecessary transitional text.</shortdesc><prolog class="- topic/prolog "><author class="- topic/author " xtrc="author:1;14:11" xtrf="file:/C:/Git/dita/specification/dita-2.0-specification.ditamap">OASIS DITA Technical Committee</author></prolog>
       <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody " xtrc="conbody:1;10:17" xtrf="file:/C:/Git/dita/specification/archSpec/base/topicorientation.dita">
              <section class="- topic/section " id="concise" xtrc="section:1;11:37" xtrf="file:/C:/Git/dita/specification/archSpec/base/topicorientation.dita">
                     <title class="- topic/title " xtrc="title:2;12:29" xtrf="file:/C:/Git/dita/specification/archSpec/base/topicorientation.dita">Conciseness and appropriateness</title>
                     <p class="- topic/p " xtrc="p:1;13:25" xtrf="file:/C:/Git/dita/specification/archSpec/base/topicorientation.dita">Readers who are trying to learn or do something quickly appreciate
                            information that is written in a structure that is easy to follow and
                            contains only the information needed to complete that task or grasp a
                            fact. Recipes, encyclopedia entries, car repair procedures--all serve up
                            a uniquely focused unit of information. The topic contains everything
                            required by the reader.</p>
              </section>
              <section class="- topic/section " id="location" xtrc="section:2;20:38" xtrf="file:/C:/Git/dita/specification/archSpec/base/topicorientation.dita">
                     <title class="- topic/title " xtrc="title:3;21:29" xtrf="file:/C:/Git/dita/specification/archSpec/base/topicorientation.dita">Locational independence</title>
                     <p class="- topic/p " xtrc="p:2;22:25" xtrf="file:/C:/Git/dita/specification/archSpec/base/topicorientation.dita">A well-designed topic is reusable in other contexts to the extent that it is
                            context free, meaning that it can be inserted into a new document
                            without revision of its content. A context-free topic avoids
                            transitional text. Phrases like "As we considered earlier ..." or "Now
                            that you have completed the initial step ..." make little sense if a
                            topic is reused in a new context in which the relationships are
                            different or no longer exist. A well-designed topic reads appropriately
                            in any new context because the text does not refer the reader outside
                            the topic.</p>
              </section>
              <section class="- topic/section " id="navigation" xtrc="section:3;32:40" xtrf="file:/C:/Git/dita/specification/archSpec/base/topicorientation.dita">
                     <title class="- topic/title " xtrc="title:4;33:29" xtrf="file:/C:/Git/dita/specification/archSpec/base/topicorientation.dita">Navigational independence</title>
                     <p class="- topic/p " xtrc="p:3;34:25" xtrf="file:/C:/Git/dita/specification/archSpec/base/topicorientation.dita">Most print publications or web pages are a mixture of content and
                            navigation. Internal links lead a reader through a sequence of choices
                            as he or she navigates through a website. DITA supports the separation
                            of navigation from content by assembling independent topics into DITA
                            maps. Nonetheless, writers <ph class="- topic/ph " xtrc="ph:1;38:61" xtrf="file:/C:/Git/dita/specification/archSpec/base/topicorientation.dita">might</ph> want to
                            provide links within a topic to additional topics or external resources.
                            DITA does not prohibit such linking within individual topics. The DITA
                            relationship table enables links between topics and to external content.
                            Since it is defined in the DITA map, it is managed independently of the
                            topic content.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p " xtrc="p:4;44:25" xtrf="file:/C:/Git/dita/specification/archSpec/base/topicorientation.dita">Links in the content are best used for cross-references within a topic.
                            Links from within a topic to additional topics or external resources
                            should be avoided because they limit the reusability of the topic. To
                            link from a term or keyword to its definition, use the DITA keyref
                            facility to avoid creating topic-to-topic dependencies that are
                            difficult to maintain. See <xref class="- topic/xref " format="dita" href="key-based-addressing.dita" xtrc="xref:1;50:50" xtrf="file:/C:/Git/dita/specification/archSpec/base/topicorientation.dita" type="concept"><?ditaot usertext?>Key-based addressing<?ditaot genshortdesc?><desc class="- topic/desc ">DITA keys provide an alternative to direct addressing. The key reference mechanism         provides a layer of indirection so that resources (for example, URIs, metadata, or variable         text strings) can be defined at the DITA map level instead of locally in each         topic.</desc></xref>.</p>
              </section>
       </conbody>
</concept>