<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="IssueNumber00" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>DITA 2.0 proposed feature #34</title>
<shortdesc>Remove topicset and topicsetref.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
<section><title>Date and version information</title><p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Date that this feature proposal was completed</dt>
            <dd>11 March 2018</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Champion of the proposal</dt>
            <dd>Eliot Kimber</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Links to any previous versions of the proposal</dt>
            <dd>N/A</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Links to minutes where this proposal was discussed at stage 1 and moved to stage
              2</dt>
            <dd><xref href="https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/201706/msg00013.html"
                format="html" scope="external"
                >https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/201706/msg00013.htmlhttps://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/201706/msg00013.html</xref></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Links to e-mail discussion that resulted in new versions of the proposal</dt>
            <dd>N/A</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Link to the GitHub issue</dt>
            <dd><xref href="https://github.com/oasis-tcs/dita/issues/34" format="html"
                scope="external"
                >https://github.com/oasis-tcs/dita/issues/34https://github.com/oasis-tcs/dita/issues/34</xref></dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p></section>
<section><title>Original requirement or use case</title><p>The <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement> elements seem to
        provide very little value over ordinary <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements. In
        addition, they regularly suggest to authors that they should result in some sort of standard
        special processing (which they do not). The semantic of <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement>
        was never clearly distinguished from any other use of topic reference elements to group
        topicrefs (e.g., <xmlelement>topicgroup</xmlelement>). </p>
      <p>The semantics of the <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement> element were never clearly
        defined in a way that was not tied directly to specific delivery tools (i.e., Eclipse help).
        Map references and the DITA 1.3 cross-deliverable linking facility appear to satisfy all the
        requirements implied for <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement>.</p>
      <p>As far as can be determined, there are no DITA processors in general use that provide any
        special processing for <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> or
          <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement>.</p></section>
<section><title>Use cases</title><p>This removes elements. No usage use case. </p></section>
<section rev="2.0">
<title>New terminology</title>
<p>No new terminology.</p>
</section>
  <section>
   <title>Proposed solution</title>
   <p>Remove the <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement> elements
        from the grammars and all specification topics that reference them.</p>
  </section>
<section><title>Benefits</title>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Who will benefit from this feature?</dt>
          <dd>All DITA users currently confused by the presence of these elements.</dd>
          <dd>DITA tool implementors who have no idea how to implement these elements correctly or
            worry about having ignored a DITA feature by not implementing them.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>What is the expected benefit?</dt>
          <dd>Reduced complexity.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>How many people probably will make use of this feature?</dt>
          <dd>N/A</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>How much of a positive impact is expected for the users who will make use of the
            feature?</dt>
          <dd>Hard to quantify impact of removing an element that few if any DITA users are using.
            Will reduce the set of <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> specializations one has to
            consider when learning about or authoring DITA maps.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></section>
<section><title>Technical requirements</title><p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Grammar and specification changes</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>Remove <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement>
                from the <term>Map Group</term> domain:<ul id="ul_wht_bkd_ddb">
                  <li>Remove from <filepath>mapGroupDomain.rng</filepath></li>
                  <li>Remove from <filepath>mapGroup.ent</filepath></li>
                  <li>Remove from <filepath>mapGroup.mod</filepath>
                  </li>
                  <li>Remove from <filepath>mapGroupMode.xsd</filepath></li>
                </ul></p>
              <p>Update the following topics to remove references to
                  <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement>:<ul
                  id="ul_gvb_bld_ddb">
                  <li><filepath>ditamap-elements.dita</filepath></li>
                  <li><filepath>commonNavLibraryTable.dita</filepath></li>
                  <li><filepath>base-elements-a-to-z.dita</filepath></li>
                  <li><filepath>all-elements-a-to-z.dita</filepath></li>
                  <li><filepath>map-group-elements.ditamap</filepath></li>
                  <li>Regenerate content model files to reflect removal from grammar files.</li>
                </ul></p>
              <p>Remove the following topics entirely:<ul id="ul_idf_wld_ddb">
                  <li><filepath>langRef/base/topicssetref.dita</filepath></li>
                  <li><filepath>langRef/base/topicset.dita</filepath></li>
                </ul></p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Processing impact</dt>
            <dd>Any processor that actually provides special processing for
                <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement> can remove
              it.</dd>
            <dd>If a processor provides unique processing for <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> or
                <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement> for which support needs to be retained, the
              processor will need to either provide its own specializations to which the processing
              can then be applied or provide some other way to signal the desired behavior, for
              example, processor-specific values for <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Overall usability</dt>
            <dd>There should be no negative usability impact.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p></section>
<section rev="2.0">
<title>Backwards compatibility</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Was this change previously announced in an earlier version of DITA?</dt>
<dd>No.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Removing or renaming an element that was shipped in DITA 1.3?</dt>
<dd>The <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement> elements will be
            removed, so any documents currently using them cannot be valid against the DITA 2.0
            grammars as provided by OASIS.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</section>
<section rev="2.0">
<title>Migration plan</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Might any existing documents need to be migrated?</dt>
<dd>
            <p>Anyone currently using these elements will need to either replace them with normal
              topicrefs or define their own specializations to replace
                <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement>.</p>
          </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Might any existing processors or implementations need to change their expectations?</dt>
<dd>
            <p>If a processor provides unique processing for <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> or
                <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement> for which support needs to be retained, the
              processor will need to either provide its own specializations to which the processing
              can then be applied or provide some other way to signal the desired behavior, for
              example, processor-specific values for <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt>.</p>
            <p>As far as the TC can determine, there are no implementations of
                <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement> in general
              use.</p>
          </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Might any existing specialization or constraint modules need to be migrated?</dt>
<dd>In the unlikely event that there are specializations of <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> or
              <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement>, those specializations will need to be redefined
            to either specialize directly from <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> or another suitable
              <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> specialization, such as
              <xmlelement>mapref</xmlelement>, or define a new domain module that provides the
            equivalent of <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement>
            to then serve as the specialization base of the specializations of
              <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement>.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</section>
  <section>
   <title>Costs</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Maintainers of the grammar files</dt>
<dd>Remove all declarations and comments that mention or use <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> or
              <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement> (already done as part of this Stage 2
            proposal).</dd>
          <dd>Regenerate content model topics and any generated navigation lists to reflect the
            removal (inherent in work that will have to be done for DITA 2.0 in any case).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Editors of the DITA specification</dt>
<dd>
<ul>
<li>How many new topics will be required? <p>None</p></li>
<li>How many existing topics will need to be edited? <p>Five authored topics (see above) plus
                  removal of topicrefs from one map. (Work already done as part of this Stage 2
                  proposal)</p></li>
<li>Will the feature require substantial changes to the information architecture of the DITA
                specification? If so, what? <p>No architectural change required.</p></li>
<li rev="2.0">If there is new terminology, is it likely to conflict with any usage of those terms in
                the existing specification?<p>No new terminology.</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Vendors of tools</dt>
<dd>Tool vendors will need to remove any hard-coded references to the
              <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement> elements.
            Any processing specific to those elements will need to either be removed or rebound to
            different elements or ways of signaling the need for the special processing, whatever it
            might be.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>DITA community-at-large</dt>
<dd>
<ul>
<li>Will this feature add to the perception that DITA is becoming too complex?<p>It should not as we
                  are removing a confusing and largely unused element.</p></li>
<li>Will it be simple for end users to understand?<p>Yes.</p></li>
<li rev="2.0">If the feature breaks backwards compatibility, how many documents are likely to be
                affected, and what is the cost of migration?<p>There should be few documents using
                    <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement>. Those
                  that are can very likely simply replace their use with normal
                    <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements.</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Producing migration instructions or tools</dt>
<dd>
<ul>
              <li>How extensive will migration instructions be, if it is integrated into an overall
                1.3 → 2.0 migration publication or white paper?<p>Migration instructions should not
                  require more than a paragraph or two at most.</p></li>
              <li>Will this require an independent white paper or other publication to provide
                migration details?<p>No.</p></li>
              <li>Do migration tools need to be created before this change can be made? If so, how
                complex will those tools be to create and to use?<p>It might be useful to include a
                  general <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement>
                  to <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> transform as part of a general migration
                  tool.</p></li>
            </ul>
</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
  </section>
<section><title>Examples</title>
      <p>N/A</p></section>
</refbody>
</reference><?Pub Caret -3?>
<?Pub *0000003625?>
