<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="grammar-files">
  <title>Grammar files</title>
  <shortdesc>This topic lists the changes that have been made to the grammar files.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <title>Catalog files</title>
      <p>The following changes were made:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Restored certain public identifiers for grammar files to the catalog files. These
          identifiers, which specify the latest in the 1.x releases of DITA, had been left out of
          the catalog files for DITA 1.3 and DITA 1.3 Errata 01.</li>
        <li>Corrected typographic errors in the RNG catalog files for DITAVAL and
          subjectScheme.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Document-type shells and module files</title>
<p>The following changes were made:</p>
<ul>
<li>In the file <filepath>rng/base/rng/topicMod.rng</filepath>, the
<xmlatt>dita:DITAArchVersion</xmlatt> attribute was defined with a default value of "1.2". This has
been corrected to "1.3".</li>
<li>In the files <filepath>dtd/base/dtd/commonElements.mod</filepath>, 
<filepath>rng/base/rng/commonElementsMod.rng</filepath>,
<filepath>schema-url/base/xsd/commonElementMod.xsd</filepath>, and
<filepath>schema/base/xsd/commonElementMod.xsd</filepath>,
the
<xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute was added to the <xmlelement>image</xmlelement> element.</li>
<li>The files <filepath>rng/subjectScheme/rng/subjectSchemeMod.rng</filepath>,
<filepath>rng/technicalContent/rng/referenceMod.rng</filepath>, and
<filepath>rng/technicalContent/rng/taskMod.rng</filepath> contain inappropriate declarations of
<xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> instead of references to the attribute using <codeph>&lt;ref
name="domains-att"/></codeph>. These three modules have been updated to use the reference.</li>
</ul>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
