<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="abstract" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement> element occurs between the topic title and the
		topic body. It is presented as the initial content of a topic. The
			<xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement> can contain paragraph-level content as well as one or
		more <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> elements which can be used for providing link
		previews or summaries.</shortdesc>
	<prolog>
		<metadata>
			<keywords>
				<indexterm>maps<indexterm>short descriptions in</indexterm></indexterm>
				<indexterm>processing
						expectations<indexterm><xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement></indexterm><indexterm>link
						previews</indexterm><indexterm>multiple <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement>
						within <xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement></indexterm><indexterm>short
						descriptions</indexterm></indexterm>
			</keywords>
		</metadata>
	</prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="section-1">
			<p>The <xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement> element cannot be overridden by maps, but its
				contained <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> elements can be, for the purpose of
				creating link summaries or previews.</p><p>Use the <xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement> element when the initial paragraph of a topic is
				unsuitable for use as a link preview or for summaries, because, for example, it
				contains lists or tables, or because only a portion of the paragraph is suitable.
				Note that when the initial paragraph is suitable as a summary, that content should
				be placed in a <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element rather than in an
					<xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement> element. The <xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement>
				element allows for a wider range of content in your initial paragraph, such as lists
				and tables, and allows you to identify portions of the
					<xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement> content as useful for previews or summaries by
				embedding the <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element within
					<xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement>.</p><p>When the contained <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> occurs within phrase-level content, it is
				treated as phrase-level content and should not create a separate paragraph on output
				of the topic. When the contained <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> occurs as a peer
				to paragraph-level content, it is treated as block-level content and should create a
				separate paragraph on output of the topic. When multiple
					<xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> elements are included in an
					<xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement>, they are concatenated in output of link
				previews or summaries (separated by spaces).</p><p id="1.2.1">When a <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element occurs in a DITA map, it overrides
				the short description provided in the topic for the purpose of generating link
				previews, but does not replace the <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> in the
				rendered topic itself. This means that generated links to this topic will use the
				short description from the map for purposes any link previews provided with the
				link, while the rendered topic continues to use the short description inside the
				topic. If the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element in the DITA map also
				specifies the <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute, the content of the
					<xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element in the DITA map also overrides the
				short description provided in the topic. In this case, the rendered topic itself
				will display the <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> contents from the map in place
				of the <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> originally specified in the topic.
				Processors <ph >might</ph> not implement this behavior.</p></section>
<section conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-abstract/contains" id="contains" otherprops="contains"></section>
<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance"><title>Inheritance</title><p>-
topic/abstract </p></section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example: <xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement> with phrase-level short description</title><codeblock id="example-code">&lt;abstract&gt;The abstract is being used to provide more complex content. 
	&lt;shortdesc&gt;The shortdesc must be directly contained by the abstract.&lt;/shortdesc&gt;
The abstract can put text around the shortdesc.
&lt;/abstract&gt;</codeblock><dl><dlentry>
<dt>Topic output</dt>
<dd>The abstract is being used to provide more complex content. The shortdesc must be directly
						contained by the abstract. The abstract can put text around the
						shortdesc.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Preview/summary output</dt>
<dd>The shortdesc must be directly contained by the abstract.</dd>
</dlentry></dl></example>
<example id="example2" otherprops="examples"><title>Example: <xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement> with block-level short description</title><codeblock>&lt;abstract&gt;&lt;p&gt;The abstract is being used to provide more complex content.&lt;/p&gt; 
	&lt;shortdesc&gt;The shortdesc must be directly contained by the abstract.&lt;/shortdesc&gt;
&lt;p&gt;The abstract can put text around the shortdesc.&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;/abstract&gt;</codeblock><dl><dlentry>
<dt>Topic output</dt>
<dd><p>The abstract is being used to provide more complex content.</p><p>The
shortdesc must be directly contained by the abstract. </p><p>The abstract
can put text around the shortdesc.</p>  	</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Preview/summary output</dt>
<dd>The shortdesc must be directly contained by the abstract.</dd>
</dlentry></dl></example>
<example id="example3" otherprops="examples"><title>Example: <xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement> with multiple short descriptions</title><codeblock>&lt;abstract&gt;The abstract is being used to provide more complex content. 
	&lt;shortdesc&gt;The shortdesc must be directly contained by the abstract.&lt;/shortdesc&gt;
	&lt;p&gt;The abstract can put text around the shortdesc.&lt;/p&gt;
	&lt;shortdesc&gt;There can be more than one shortdesc.&lt;/shortdesc&gt;
&lt;/abstract&gt;</codeblock><dl><dlentry>
<dt>Topic output</dt>
<dd><p>The abstract is being used to provide more complex content.
The shortdesc must be directly contained by the abstract.</p><p>The
abstract can put text around the shortdesc.</p><p> There can be more
than one shortdesc.</p> 	</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Preview/summary output</dt>
<dd>The shortdesc must be directly contained by the abstract. There
can be more than one shortdesc.</dd>
</dlentry></dl></example>
<section id="attributes"><title>Attributes</title>
			<p >The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
					href="../attributes/universalAttributes.dita"/> and <xref
					href="../attributes/commonAttributes.dita#common-atts/outputclass"/>.</p></section>
</refbody>
</reference>

