<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="anchorref" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>anchorref</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>anchorref</xmlelement> element is used to reference an
            <xmlelement>anchor</xmlelement> element in a map. The contents of an
            <xmlelement>anchorref</xmlelement> element are rendered both in the original authored
        location and at the location of the referenced <xmlelement>anchor</xmlelement> element. The
        referenced <xmlelement>anchor</xmlelement> element might be defined in the current map or
        another map. When possible, this integration is done when displaying the map with
            <xmlelement>anchor</xmlelement> to an end user. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>mapgroup domain<indexterm><xmlelement>anchorref</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
        <section id="usage-information">
            <title>Usage information</title>
            <p>This function of the <xmlelement>anchorref</xmlelement> element is similar to that
                provided by the <xmlatt>anchorref</xmlatt> attribute of the
                    <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element. However, instead of attaching an entire
                map to an anchor point, this element allows the author to attach only the contents
                of a single map branch. This enables architects to reuse a branch of content without
                reusing the entire map.</p>
            <p>By default, the content of the <xmlelement>anchorref</xmlelement> element is rendered
                at both the anchor target and the original location. To prevent the content from
                being rendered at the location of the <xmlelement>anchorref</xmlelement> element,
                set <codeph>toc="no"</codeph> on the <xmlelement>anchorref</xmlelement> element, and
                then set <codeph>toc="yes"</codeph> on each of its children so that they will not
                inherit the <codeph>toc="no"</codeph> setting.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="processing-expectations">
            <title>Processing expectations</title>
            <p>If the rendering platform does not support runtime integration of navigation based on
                the anchor point, a build system should treat the <xmlelement>anchorref</xmlelement>
                element similar to a "conref push" instruction by pushing the content to the spot
                that contains the <xmlelement>anchor</xmlelement>. Note that many
                    <xmlelement>anchorref</xmlelement> elements might push content to the same
                point; the order in which items are pushed is left undefined, although the order
                within a single <xmlelement>anchorref</xmlelement> is preserved.</p>
            <p>Metadata cascading takes place in the original authored context, because the branch
                of content defined with the <xmlelement>anchorref</xmlelement> remains independent
                from the referenced map. The <xmlelement>anchorref</xmlelement> content does not
                take on the cascading metadata at the <xmlelement>anchor</xmlelement> location. For
                example, if the map containing the <xmlelement>anchorref</xmlelement> element sets a
                local copyright, that copyright cascades to the <xmlelement>anchorref</xmlelement>
                element and its children; it is retained after the content is rendered at the target
                    <xmlelement>anchor</xmlelement> element.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="specialization-hierarchy">
            <title>Specialization hierarchy</title>
            <p>The <xmlelement>anchoref</xmlelement> element is specialized from
                    <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>. It is defined in the mapgroup module.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="attributes">
            <title>Attributes</title>
            <sectiondiv id="standard-topicref-attributes">
                <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
                        keyref="attributes-universal"/>, <xref
                        keyref="attributes-linkRelationship"/> (with narrowed
                    definitions of <xmlatt>href</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>type</xmlatt>, and
                        <xmlatt>format</xmlatt>, all given below), <xref
                        keyref="attributes-commonMap"/>, <xref
                        keyref="attributes-topicrefElement"/>, <xref
                        keyref="attributes-keys"><xmlatt>keys</xmlatt></xref>, and
                        <xref keyref="attributes-keyref"
                        ><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></xref>. </p>
                <dl>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt><xmlatt>href</xmlatt></dt>
                        <dd>A pointer to an <xmlelement>anchor</xmlelement> element in this or
                            another DITA map. When rendered, the contents of the current element
                            will be copied to the location of the <xmlelement>anchor</xmlelement>.
                                <ph>See <xref keyref="attributes-href"/> for supported syntax when
                                referencing a map element.</ph>
                        </dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt><xmlatt>type</xmlatt></dt>
                        <dd>Describes the target of a reference. For the
                                <xmlelement>anchorref</xmlelement> element, this value defaults to
                            "anchor", because the element is expected to point to an
                                <xmlelement>anchor</xmlelement> element in this or another map.</dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt><xmlatt>format</xmlatt></dt>
                        <dd>The <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute identifies the format of the
                            resource being referenced. For the <xmlelement>anchorref</xmlelement>
                            element, this attribute defaults to <keyword>ditamap</keyword>, because
                            the element references a point in a map.</dd>
                    </dlentry>
                </dl>
            </sectiondiv>
        </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title><fig><title>Initial map
contents</title>
<codeblock>&lt;topicref href="carPrep.dita">
    &lt;topicref href="beforePrep.dita"/>
    &lt;anchor id="prepDetail"/>
    &lt;topicref href="afterPrep.dita"/>
&lt;/topicref>
&lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;topicref href="astroTasks.dita">
    &lt;topicref href="astroOverview.dita"/>
    <b>&lt;anchorref href="#prepDetail"></b>
        &lt;topicref href="astroChecklist.dita"/>
        &lt;topicref href="otherPreparation.dita"/>
    <b>&lt;/anchorref></b>
    &lt;topicref href="astroConclusion.dita"/>
&lt;/topicref></codeblock>
</fig><fig>
                <title>Effective result of evaluating the <xmlelement>anchorref</xmlelement>
                    element</title>
                <codeblock>&lt;topicref href="carPrep.dita">
    &lt;topicref href="beforePrep.dita"/>
    &lt;anchor id="prepDetail"/>
    &lt;topicref href="astroChecklist.dita"/>
    &lt;topicref href="otherPreparation.dita"/>
    &lt;topicref href="afterPrep.dita"/>
&lt;/topicref>
&lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;topicref href="astroTasks.dita">
    &lt;topicref href="astroOverview.dita"/>
    &lt;topicref href="astroChecklist.dita"/>
    &lt;topicref href="otherPreparation.dita"/>
    &lt;topicref href="astroConclusion.dita"/>
&lt;/topicref></codeblock>
            </fig></example>
</refbody>
</reference>
