<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="anchorkey" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>anchorkey</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>anchorkey</xmlelement> element allows an author to define a
      <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> target that will be resolved dynamically when rendered for an end user
    of the content. This element is useful when doing an initial process of the DITA content prior
    to final rendering of the content; it allows specified keys to be preserved after that process,
    and conref relationships which use that key will not be resolved during that initial
    process.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>anchorkey</indexterm>
        <indexterm>delayed conref domain<indexterm>anchorkey</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="section-1"><p>When a <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute is specified on an <xmlelement>anchorkey</xmlelement>
        element, it indicates that any conref relationships using that key will not be resolved.
        Applications that support run-time resolution of <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> with keys will then
        be able to dynamically resolve this <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> at display time.</p><p>There is no difference between specifying <xmlelement>anchorkey</xmlelement> within a map (in
          <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement>) and specifying <xmlelement>anchorkey</xmlelement>
        within a topic. In both cases, processors are instructed to delay resolution of that key for
        the current set of information. However, the best practice is to only use
          <xmlelement>anchorkey</xmlelement> within a map. If it is specified in a topic, that topic
        will define a usage for the key for every user of that topic. This makes the topic less
        portable, because users that do not want to delay resolution of that specific key will not
        be able to include the topic in their information.</p>
      <p conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/export-anchors-disclaimer"/></section>
<section id="contains" conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-anchorkey/contains" otherprops="contains"></section>
<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance"><title>Inheritance</title><p>+
topic/keyword delay-d/anchorkey </p></section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title><p>In this example, a set of information contains multiple components. Some references to component
        A use keys rather than a direct reference, so that <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> can be redirected
        to a different component when component A is not installed. The keys <ph
          rev="public-review-1">might</ph> be exported, in addition to the IDs, so that some
        references become bound to the actual component while other references <ph
          rev="public-review-1">might</ph> be redirected.</p><codeblock>&lt;map>
  &lt;topicref keys="componentAconfig commonconfig" 
            href="componentA/configA.dita#configA">
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;exportanchors>
        &lt;anchorkey keyref="commonconfig"/>
        &lt;anchorid id="step1"/>
        &lt;anchorid id="step2"/>
      &lt;/exportanchors>
    &lt;/topicmeta>
  &lt;/topicref>
&lt;/map></codeblock><p>The <xmlatt>keys</xmlatt> attributes declares two distinct keys that <ph rev="public-review-1"
          >can</ph> be used to refer to this topic (componentAconfig and commonconfig). Only the
        second is preserved using <xmlelement>anchorkey</xmlelement>. A task topic from another
        component <ph rev="public-review-1">might</ph> reuse steps within this topic in a variety of
        ways.</p><codeblock>&lt;steps>
  &lt;step conkeyref="componentAconfig/step1">&lt;cmd/>&lt;/step>
  &lt;step conkeyref="componentAconfig/step1.5">&lt;cmd/>&lt;/step>
  &lt;step conkeyref="commonconfig/step2">&lt;cmd/>&lt;/step>
  &lt;step conkeyref="commonconfig/step2.5">&lt;cmd/>&lt;/step>
  &lt;step>&lt;cmd>And that is the end of that&lt;/cmd>&lt;/step>
&lt;/steps></codeblock><ul>
<li>The componentAconfig key is not preserved, so the first <xmlelement>step</xmlelement> becomes
            <codeph>&lt;step
            conref="componentA/configA.dita#configA/step1">&lt;cmd/>&lt;/step></codeph>. At that
          point the <xmlelement>anchorid</xmlelement> element instructs the step1 ID to be
          preserved; for runtime applications which support it, this relationship will be preserved
          in the processed DITA output.</li>
<li>The second <xmlelement>step</xmlelement> with the same key becomes <codeph>&lt;step
            conref="componentA/configA.dita#configA/step1.5">&lt;cmd/>&lt;/step></codeph>. However,
          conref relationships to step1.5 are not preserved, so this conref should be resolved into
          static content.</li>
<li>For <xmlelement>step</xmlelement> three, the map instructs that both the key commonconfig and
          the ID step2 should be preserved in any content generated for this DITA topic. For formats
          that support runtime resolution through keys, a process must convert the
            <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> value into an equivalent value for that format.</li>
<li>Although resolution for the key used in <xmlelement>step</xmlelement> four is delayed, the
          specific element that is referenced should not be delayed. Thus the fourth step becomes
            <codeph>&lt;step
            conref="componentA/configA.dita#configA/step2.5">&lt;cmd/>&lt;/step></codeph>. This
          value is then processed as an ordinary <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> value.</li>
</ul><p>This allows the information assembler to resolve references
that must be to componentA while deferring references that can be
fulfilled by alternative component content.</p><note>This example demonstrates why the <xmlelement>anchorid</xmlelement> element cannot reference
        an element with the usual topicid/elementid format. If the two
          <xmlelement>anchorid</xmlelement> elements in the example had been set to config/step1 and
        config/step2, then they would only ever apply in a topic with id="config". It would not be
        possible to redirect the key to another topic, but still preserve conref behaviors as
        desired.</note><note>Although it is not specifically called out in this example, it is possible to delay
          <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> resolution for an entire topic using the key. If
          <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> on a task topic element is set to "componentAconfig", which
          <i>is not</i> delayed, the <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> will be evaluated as usual. However, if
          <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> on the task is set to "commonconfig", which <i>is</i> delayed,
        resolution of <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> on that element should be delayed by a
        processor.</note></example>
<section id="attributes"><title>Attributes</title>
      <p >The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          href="../attributes/universalAttributes.dita"/>, <xref
          href="../attributes/commonAttributes.dita#common-atts/outputclass"/>, and the attribute
        defined below.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt>
            <ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/required-attr"/></dt>
          <dd>Defines a key that, when possible, <ph rev="public-review-1">is</ph> preserved in
            content generated from the DITA source material. Conref relationships that use this key
              <ph rev="public-review-1">are</ph> not resolved when generating that material, so that
              <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>
            <ph rev="public-review-1">might</ph> be resolved at run-time when an end user is reading
            the content. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      </section>
</refbody>
</reference>
