<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="audience" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title><xmlelement>audience</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc>The <xmlelement>audience</xmlelement> metadata element indicates, through the value of
    its <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute, the intended audience for a topic.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>audience</indexterm><indexterm>prolog elements<indexterm>audience</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody><section id="section-1">
      <p>Since a topic can have multiple audiences, you can include multiple audience elements. For
        each audience you specify, you can identify the high-level task they are trying to
        accomplish with the <xmlatt>job</xmlatt> attribute, and the level of experience expected
        with the <xmlatt>experiencelevel</xmlatt> attribute. <ph>The
            <xmlelement>audience</xmlelement> element <ph >can</ph> be used to
          provide a more detailed definition of values used throughout the map or topic on the
            <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt> attribute.</ph></p>
      <p>Many of the attributes on the <xmlelement>audience</xmlelement> element have enumerated
        values, which <ph >can</ph> be restricted by using constraints or
        extended by using associated attributes. For instance, the <xmlatt>othertype</xmlatt>
        attribute can be used to extend the audience type enumeration.</p>
    </section><section id="contains" conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-audience/contains" otherprops="contains"></section>
<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance">
      <title>Inheritance</title>
      <p>- topic/audience </p>
    </section><example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>For a command reference topic for experienced programmers, the following might be an
        appropriate indication of that audience:</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;audience type="programmer" job="programming" experiencelevel="expert"/&gt;</codeblock>
    </example><section id="attributes"><title>Attributes</title><p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          href="../attributes/universalAttributes.dita"/> and the attributes defined below.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="type">
          <dt><xmlatt>type</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Indicates the kind of person for whom the content of the topic is intended. <ph
              id="nonstandard-type">Note that this differs from the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute
              on many other DITA elements.</ph> Beginning with DITA 1.2, values in this attribute
            are not limited to a small number of choices; the following values were used in DITA 1.0
            and DITA 1.1, and are still provided as sample values: <keyword>user</keyword>,
              <keyword>purchaser</keyword>, <keyword>administrator</keyword>,
              <keyword>programmer</keyword>, <keyword>executive</keyword>,
              <keyword>services</keyword>, <keyword>other</keyword>, and <xref
              href="../attributes/ditauseconreftarget.dita">-dita-use-conref-target</xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="othertype">
          <dt><xmlatt>othertype</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Indicates an alternate audience type, when the type is not available in the
              <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute value list. This value is used as the user-provided
            audience when the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute value is set to
            &quot;other.&quot;</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="job">
          <dt><xmlatt>job</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Indicates the high-level task the audience for the topic is trying to accomplish.
            Different audiences <ph >might</ph> read the same topic in terms of
            different high-level tasks; for example, an administrator <ph 
              >might</ph> read the topic while administering, while a programmer <ph
              >might</ph> read the same topic while customizing. Beginning with
            DITA 1.2, values in this attribute are not limited to a small number of choices; the
            following values were used in DITA 1.0 and DITA 1.1, and are still provided as sample
            values: <keyword>installing</keyword>, <keyword>customizing</keyword>,
              <keyword>administering</keyword>, <keyword> programming</keyword>, <keyword>
              using</keyword>, <keyword>maintaining</keyword>, <keyword>troubleshooting</keyword>,
              <keyword>evaluating</keyword>, <keyword>planning</keyword>,
              <keyword>migrating</keyword>, <keyword>other</keyword>, and <xref
              href="../attributes/ditauseconreftarget.dita">-dita-use-conref-target</xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="otherjob">
          <dt><xmlatt>otherjob</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>If the <xmlatt>job</xmlatt> attribute value is &quot;other&quot; the value of this
            attribute is used to identify a kind of job other than the default ones provided by the
              <xmlatt>job</xmlatt> attribute.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="experiencelevel">
          <dt><xmlatt>experiencelevel</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Indicates the level of experience the audience is assumed to possess. Different
            audiences <ph >might</ph> have different experience levels with
            respect to the same topic; for example, a topic <ph >might</ph>
            require general knowledge from a programmer, but expert knowledge from a user. Beginning
            with DITA 1.2, values in this attribute are not limited to a small number of choices;
            the following values were used in DITA 1.0 and DITA 1.1, and are still provided as
            sample values: <keyword>novice</keyword>, <keyword>general</keyword>,
              <keyword>expert</keyword>, and <xref href="../attributes/ditauseconreftarget.dita"
              >-dita-use-conref-target</xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="name">
          <dt><xmlatt>name</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Used to associate the <xmlelement>audience</xmlelement> element with values used in
            the <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt> attribute.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></section></refbody>
</reference>
