<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="bodydiv" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>bodydiv</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>bodydiv</xmlelement> element is used to contain informal blocks of
    information within the body of a topic. The <xmlelement>bodydiv</xmlelement> element is
    specifically designed to be a grouping element, without any explicit semantics, other than to
    organize subsets of content into logical groups that are not intended or should not be contained
    as a topic. As such, it does not contain an explicit title to avoid enabling the creation of
    deeply nested content that would otherwise be written as separate topics. <ph
      rev="public-review-1">For content that requires a title, use a
        <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> element or a nested topic.</ph></shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>grouping
              elements<indexterm><xmlelement>bodydiv</xmlelement></indexterm><indexterm><xmlelement>div</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="section-1">
   <p>The <xmlelement>bodydiv</xmlelement> element <ph rev="public-review-1">can</ph> nest itself,
        which means that it can be used as a specialization base to create structured information
        within a body. Another common use case for the <xmlelement>bodydiv</xmlelement> element is
        to group a sequence of related elements for reuse, so that another topic <ph
          rev="public-review-1">can</ph> reference the entire set with a single
          <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute.</p>
   <p >Because the <xmlelement>bodydiv</xmlelement> element allows
          <xmlelement>section</xmlelement>, it cannot be used within
          <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> elements. Use the <xmlelement>div</xmlelement> element to
        group content that might occur in both topic bodies and sections.</p>
  </section>
<section conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-bodydiv/contains" id="contains" otherprops="contains"></section>
<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance"><title>Inheritance</title><p>-
topic/bodydiv </p></section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title><codeblock>&lt;topic id="sample" xml:lang="en">
 &lt;title>Sample for bodydiv&lt;/title>
 &lt;body>
  &lt;bodydiv id="div">
   &lt;p>This set of information is reusable as a group.&lt;/p>
   &lt;p>Lists of three contain three items.&lt;/p>
   &lt;ul>
    &lt;li>This is one item.&lt;/li>
    &lt;li>This is another item.&lt;/li>
    &lt;li>This is the third item.&lt;/li>
   &lt;/ul>
  &lt;/bodydiv>
  &lt;p>This concludes my topic.&lt;/p>
 &lt;/body>
&lt;/topic></codeblock></example>
<section id="attributes"><title>Attributes</title>
   <p >The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
     href="../attributes/universalAttributes.dita"/> and <xref
     href="../attributes/commonAttributes.dita#common-atts/outputclass"/>.</p>
 </section>
</refbody>
</reference>

