<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="data" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>data</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> element represents a property within a DITA topic or
    map. While the <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> element can be used directly to capture properties,
    it is particularly useful as a basis for specialization. Default processing should treat the
    content as an unknown kind of metadata and ignore it for rendering, but custom processing <ph
      rev="public-review-1">might</ph> match the <xmlatt>name</xmlatt> attribute or specialized
    element and use the element for automated manipulation or to format data associated with the
    body flow. For example, a specialized <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> element <ph
      rev="public-review-1">might</ph> be used to format properties as sidebars or other adornments
    or to harvest properties for automated processing.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>data</indexterm><indexterm>property <indexterm>data</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>specialization elements<indexterm>data</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="section-1"> <p>The subject of the property is ordinarily the container of the <xmlelement>data</xmlelement>
        element. In the content model for the <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement> and
          <xmlelement>metadata</xmlelement> elements, the property applies to the topic as a whole.
        In the <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element, the property applies to the referenced
        topic. The <xmlelement>data-about</xmlelement> element <ph rev="public-review-1">can</ph> be
        used to identify the subject of the property with an explicit reference.</p><p>The <xmlatt>name</xmlatt> attribute names the property for processes. A
          <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> subelement <ph rev="public-review-1">can</ph> provide a
        label for the property. The <xmlatt>datatype</xmlatt> attribute <ph rev="public-review-1"
          >can</ph> be used to identify the type for the value. The value of the property can be any
        of the following:</p><ul>
<li>A simple text value expressed with the <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> attribute or textual content.</li>
<li>A reference to either DITA content or a non-DITA resource expressed with the
            <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute.</li>
<li>An image or other non-textual object. </li>
<li>A brief unit of descriptive text that is not part of the body
text flow.</li>
<li>A complex structure composed of nested <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> elements.</li>
</ul><note type="caution">Processors should ignore the content of the <xmlelement>data</xmlelement>
        element by default, so the <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> element should only be used for
        properties and not to embed text for formatting as part of the flow of the topic body. It
        might be tempting to specialize the <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> element for text that is
        part of the body flow, so as to escape the restrictions of the base content models. This
        abuse of the DITA architecture will cause problems. For example, if a particular kind of
        paragraph is specialized from <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> rather than from
          <xmlelement>p</xmlelement>, then when the content is exchanged with others that do not
        recognize the specialized element, their processors will skip the content.</note><p>The <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> element <ph rev="public-review-1">can</ph> be nested to create
        structures for complex properties. The <xmlatt>name</xmlatt> attribute <ph
          rev="public-review-1">might be used to</ph> distinguish different semantics associated
        with different instances of the <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> element such as addresses,
        times, amounts, and so on. In many cases, however, it is preferable to specialize the
          <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> element for more precise semantics, structures, and values.
        For instance, a specialization can specify an enumeration for the <xmlatt>value</xmlatt>
        attribute. </p><p>A <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> element containing properties of a topic as a whole should be
        located in the topic&apos;s <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement> or
          <xmlelement>metadata</xmlelement> element, or in a <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement>
        element related to a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> that references the topic. The
          <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> element generally goes at the beginning of the element to
        which the properties in it refer. Where this is unwieldy, the <xmlelement>data</xmlelement>
        element can go in the <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement>, with the
          <xmlelement>data-about</xmlelement> element identifying which specific element in the
        topic is the reference.</p><!--RDA: Removed this paragraph in draft 1.2.3, it seems to duplicate info above:
<p>A process can harvest the values of these properties for a machine-processable
representation such as RDF. The default formatting ignores the &lt;data>
element within the &lt;body> element. Customized or specialized processing
can render property values, given an appropriate specification of
which values should be displayed, in which outputs, and how and where
they should appear in output.</p>--> </section>
<section conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-data/contains" id="contains" otherprops="contains"></section>
<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance"> <title>Inheritance</title><p>-
topic/data </p> </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title><p>Uses of the <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> element <ph rev="public-review-1">can</ph> include the
        following:</p><ul>
<li>Complex metadata properties such as bibliographic records corresponding
to citations.</li>
<li>Hybrid documents with data values as part of the content, such
as word processor formats using form fields.</li>
<li>Messages in which the payload includes human-readable content. Such applications can use the
            <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> element to define the addressing on the message envelope.
          For instance, a topic could model an email message by representing the address with
          specialized <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> elements in the <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement>
          element and the content with the <xmlelement>body</xmlelement> element.</li>
<li>Transactional documents in which the values are processed but also displayed with human-readable
          content. In particular, a library of building blocks for transaction documents can be
          implemented through a DITA domain as specialized <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> elements
          including those from the UN/CEFACT Core Components Technical Specification (<xref
            format="html" href="http://www.unece.org/cefact/" scope="external"
            >http://www.unece.org/cefact/</xref>). </li>
</ul><fig>
        <title>Using the <xmlatt>name</xmlatt> attribute on unspecialized
            <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> elements</title>
        <p>This structure identifies the library and version demonstrated by a code sample. The
            <xmlatt>name</xmlatt> attribute is used to identify both the grouping
            <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> element and the nested <xmlelement>data</xmlelement>
          elements that provide specific properties. These properties will not appear in the output
          unless a processor is customized to recognize these <xmlatt>name</xmlatt> attribute
          values.</p>
        <codeblock>&lt;codeblock>
  &lt;data name="exampleOf">
    &lt;data name="library" href="ajaxLibrary.js"/>
    &lt;data name="version" value="2006-6-19"/>
  &lt;/data>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/codeblock></codeblock>
      </fig><fig>
        <title>Specializing <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> to annotate a code sample</title>
        <p>The following example specifies the delimited source code for a code fragment so an
          automated process can refresh the code fragment. The
            <xmlelement>fragmentSource</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>sourceFile</xmlelement>,
            <xmlelement>startDelimiter</xmlelement>, and <xmlelement>endDelimiter</xmlelement>
          elements are specialized from <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> but the
            <xmlelement>codeFragment</xmlelement> is specialized from
            <xmlelement>codeblock</xmlelement>. The properties specialized from
            <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> would not appear in formatted output unless a processor is
          explicitly instructed to display them: </p>
        <codeblock><![CDATA[<example>
    <title>An important coding technique</title>
    <codeFragment>
        <fragmentSource>
            <sourceFile     value="helloWorld.java"/>
            <startDelimiter value="FRAGMENT_START_1"/>
            <endDelimiter   value="FRAGMENT_END_1"/>
        </fragmentSource>
        <!-- ... -->
    </codeFragment>
</example>
]]></codeblock>
      </fig><fig>
        <title>Specializing <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> to annotate housing information</title>
        <p>The following example identifies a real estate property as part of a house description.
          The <xmlelement>realEstateProperty</xmlelement> element and its child elements are
          specialized from <xmlelement>data</xmlelement>. The
            <xmlelement>houseDescription</xmlelement> element is specialized from
            <xmlelement>section</xmlelement>. A specialized process can format the values as part of
          a brochure if they meet criteria for inclusion.</p>
        <codeblock><![CDATA[<houseDescription>
  <title>A great home for sale</title>
  <realEstateProperty>
    <realEstateBlock value="B7"/>
    <realEstateLot   value="4003"/>
    <!-- ... -->
  </realEstateProperty>
  <p>This elegant....</p>
  <object data="B7_4003_tour360Degrees.swf"/>
</houseDescription>
]]></codeblock>
      </fig></example>
<section id="attributes"> <title>Attributes</title>
      <p
        conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/data-link-universal-keyref-outputclass"/> </section>
</refbody>
</reference>

