<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="desc" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>desc</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc conkeyref="library-short-descriptions/desc"/>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
        <indexterm>description</indexterm>
        <indexterm>elements<indexterm>body<indexterm><xmlelement>desc</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>normative
          statements<indexterm><xmlelement>desc</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>The following list outlines common uses of the <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement> element:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlelement>table</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>fig</xmlelement></dt>
          <dd>Provides more information than can be contained in the title.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>link</xmlelement></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>Provides a description of the target.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlelement>object</xmlelement></dt>
          <dd>Provides alternate content to use when the context does not permit displaying the
            object.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section id="processing-expectations">
      <title>Processing expectations</title>
      <p>When used in conjunction with <xmlelement>fig</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>table,
        </xmlelement> processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> consider a description
        to be part of the content flow.</p>
      <p>When used in conjunction with <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> or
          <xmlelement>link</xmlelement> elements, processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term>
        choose to render the content of a <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement> element as hover help.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
    <p conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/only-universal"/>
    </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Examples</title>
      <fig>
        <title>Description of a figure</title>
        <p>In the following code sample, the figure contains an image of a famous painting by
          Leonardo Da Vinci. The title provides the name of the painting, while the
            <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement> element contains information about when the portrait is
          thought to have been painted.</p>
        <codeblock>&lt;fig>
&lt;title&gt;Mona Lisa&lt;/title&gt;
<b>&lt;desc&gt;</b>Circa 1503–06, perhaps continuing until 1517<b>&lt;/desc&gt;</b>
&lt;image href="mona-lisa.jpg"&gt;
 &lt;alt&gt;Photograph of Mona Lisa painting&lt;/alt&gt;
&lt;/image&gt;
&lt;/fig&gt;</codeblock>
      </fig>
      <fig>
        <title>Description of a cross reference</title>
        <p>In the following code sample, a <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement> element is used within a
          link. Some processors might use the content of the <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement> element
          as hover help. </p>
        <codeblock>&lt;link keyref="dita-13-02">
  &lt;linktext>DITA 1.3 Errata 02&lt;/linktext>
  <b>&lt;desc></b>Final errata version of DITA 1.3, published 19 June 2018<b>&lt;/desc></b>
&lt;/link></codeblock>
      </fig>
    </example>
</refbody>
</reference>
