<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="draft-comment" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>draft-comment</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>A draft comment is content that is intended for review and discussion, such as questions,
    comments, and notes to reviewers. This content is not intended to be included in production
    output.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
        <indexterm>draft comments</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>body<indexterm><xmlelement>draft-comment</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>processing
            expectations<indexterm><xmlelement>draft-comment</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>normative
          statements<indexterm><xmlelement>draft-comment</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
    <!--<section id="usage-information"><title>Usage information</title><p>Authors can use the <xmlelement>draft-comment</xmlelement> element to ask a question or to make a comment that they want others to review. To indicate the source, date, or status of the draft comment, authors can use the <xmlatt>author</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>time</xmlatt>, or <xmlatt>disposition</xmlatt> attributes.</p><draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="23 May 2017"><p>Robert and I think that the above section should be removed from the spec. It is basic, user guide material, and the information is already covered in the "Attributes" section. I enhanced the example section to cover usage of all three attributes.</p></draft-comment></section>-->
<section id="processing-expectations">
      <title>Processing expectations</title>
      <p>Processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> provide a mechanism that causes the
        content of the <xmlelement>draft-comment</xmlelement> element to be rendered in draft output
        only. By default, processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> strip out
          <xmlelement>draft-comment</xmlelement> elements to prevent publishing internal comments by
        mistake.</p>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="23 May 2017">
        <p>Note that the above normative statements were revised in order to clearly state the
          element. That will enable such content to be viewed in ancillary materials as standalone
          content.</p>
        <p>(DITA 1.3 content) Processing systems <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> provide
          a mechanism that causes the content of this element to be rendered in draft output only.
          By default, processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> strip them out to
          prevent publishing internal comments by mistake.</p>
      </draft-comment>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          keyref="attributes-universal"/> (with a narrowed definition for
          <xmlatt>translate</xmlatt>, given below) and the attributes
        defined below.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/translate-NO">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="author">
          <dt><xmlatt>author</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Designates the originator of the draft comment.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="time">
          <dt><xmlatt>time</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Describes when the draft comment was created.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="disposition">
          <dt><xmlatt>disposition</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Status of the draft comment. <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein"
              time="23 May 2017">
              <p>I removed the following sentence: "Prior to DITA 1.2, this attribute was limited to
                the following values: issue, open, accepted, rejected, deferred, duplicate,
                reopened, unassigned, or completed."</p>
            </draft-comment></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>The following example illustrates how an content developer can use a
          <xmlelement>draft-comment</xmlelement> element to pose a question to reviewers.</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;draft-comment 
  <b>author="EBP"</b> 
  <b>time="23 May 2017"</b> 
  status="missing-info"&gt;
Where's the usage information for this section?
&lt;/draft-comment&gt;</codeblock>
      <p>Processors might render the information from the highlighted attributes at viewing or
        publishing time. Authors might use the value of the  <xmlatt>status</xmlatt> attribute to
        track the work that remains to be done on a content collection.</p>
    </example>
</refbody>
</reference>

