<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="dvrResourceSuffix" xml:lang="en-us" >
  <title><xmlelement>dvrResourceSuffix</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc>The <xmlelement>dvrResourceSuffix</xmlelement> element specifies the suffix to use
    when constructing the effective file names of resources that are referenced from within the map
    branch that is implied by the ancestor <xmlelement>ditavalref</xmlelement> element.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITAVAL reference
            domain<indexterm><xmlelement>dvrResourceSuffix</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="section-1">
      <p>For map branches that are implied by <xmlelement>ditavalref</xmlelement> elements, the
        value of the <xmlelement>dvrResourceSuffix</xmlelement> element contributes to the
        effective file names of the resources that are referenced within the branch. The base part
        of the effective resource file name ends with the value of the
          <xmlelement>dvrResourceSuffix</xmlelement> element. The base part of the resource file
        name consists of the portion of the file name after any directory information, and before
        any period followed by the file extension. For example, in the original file name
          <filepath>task/install.dita</filepath>, the base portion of the file name is "install".
          <ph conkeyref="reuse-general/ditavalref-copyto"/></p>
      <p>Some resources are not eligible for renaming, such as those marked with
          <codeph>scope="external"</codeph>. Rules for which resources are eligible for renaming,
        and what names are allowed as valid resource names, are the same as those for the
          <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute defined in <xref
          keyref="attributes-common/topicrefatts"/>, with one
        exception. Where <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> and <xmlelement>dvrResourcePrefix</xmlelement>
        <ph >might</ph> include path information, path information is not valid
        in <xmlelement>dvrResourceSuffix</xmlelement>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="specialization-hierachy">
      <title>Specialization hierarchy</title>
      <p>The <xmlelement>dvrResourceSuffix</xmlelement> element is specialized from <xref
          keyref="elements-data"/>. It is defined in the DITAVALref domain module.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref keyref="attributes-universal"
        /> (except for <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt>, which is removed for all elements in this domain)
        and the attribute defined below.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>name</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>The name of the metadata item. For this element the default value is
            "dvrResourceSuffix".</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>If the <xmlelement>dvrResourceSuffix</xmlelement> is specified in the following
        way:<codeblock>&lt;topicref href="branch-01.dita">
  &lt;ditavalref href="condition-01.ditaval">
    &lt;ditavalmeta>
      &lt;dvrResourceSuffix>-cond01&lt;/dvrResourceSuffix>
    &lt;/ditavalmeta>
  &lt;/ditavalref>
  &lt;topicref href="topics/subtopic-01.dita"/>
&lt;/topicref></codeblock></p>
      <p>Then the effective file name of resource <filepath>topics/subtopic-01.dita</filepath> is
          <filepath>topics/subtopic-01-cond01.dita</filepath>, as though the
          <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute had been specified with that value on the
          <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> to <filepath>topics/subtopic-01.dita</filepath>.
        Similarly, the effective file name of resource <filepath>branch-01.dita</filepath> is
          <filepath>branch-01-cond01.dita</filepath>.</p>
    </example>
  </refbody>
</reference>
