<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="elementdef" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>elementdef</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc >The <xmlelement>elementdef</xmlelement> element identifies an element to
    which an attribute is bound. If the <xmlelement>enumerationdef</xmlelement> element does not
    contain an <xmlelement>elementdef</xmlelement> element, the enumeration is bound to the
    attribute in all elements.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>elementdef</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm>subjectScheme<indexterm>elements<indexterm><xmlelement>elementdef</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="specialization-hierachy">
      <title>Specialization hierarchy</title>
      <p>The <xmlelement>elementdef</xmlelement> element is specialized from <xref
          keyref="elements-data"/>. It is defined in the topic module.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          keyref="attributes-id"/>, <xmlatt>status</xmlatt> and
          <xmlatt>base</xmlatt> from <xref keyref="attributes-metadata"
          />, <xref keyref="attributes-universal/outputclass"/>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-universal/class"/>, and the attributes
        defined below.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>name</xmlatt>
            <ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/required-attr"/></dt>
          <dd>Defines the element for which an attribute enumeration is defined.
            <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/translate-NO">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title><p>In this example, the <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> attribute for the
          <xmlelement>lomDifficulty</xmlelement> element is bound to a specified set of values.
        Processors should limit the values for the <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> attribute on the
          <xmlelement>lomDifficulty</xmlelement> element to the following set of values: easy,
        medium, or difficult. Other elements that have a <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> attribute are not
        affected.</p><codeblock>&lt;subjectScheme>
  &lt;subjectdef keys="difficulty">
    &lt;subjectdef keys="easy"/>
    &lt;subjectdef keys="medium"/>
    &lt;subjectdef keys="difficult"/>
  &lt;/subjectdef>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
  &lt;enumerationdef>
    <b>&lt;elementdef name="lomDifficulty"/></b>
    &lt;attributedef name="value"/>
    &lt;subjectdef keyref="difficulty"/>
  &lt;/enumerationdef>
&lt;/subjectScheme></codeblock></example>
</refbody>
</reference>

