<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="entry" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title><xmlelement>entry</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc>The <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement> element defines a single cell in a
    table.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>entry</indexterm>
        <indexterm>table elements<indexterm>entry</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          keyref="attributes-universal"/> (without the Metadata attribute group),
          <xmlatt>base</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>rev</xmlatt> from the <xref
          keyref="attributes-metadata"/>, and the attributes
        defined below. This element also uses <xmlatt>align</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>char</xmlatt>,
          <xmlatt>charoff</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>colsep</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>rowsep</xmlatt>, and
          <xmlatt>valign</xmlatt> from the <xref keyref="attributes-calsTable"
        />.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>rotate</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Indicates whether the contents of the entry <ph>is</ph> rotated. While the attribute
            is declared with the XML data type CDATA, the only predefined values are:<dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>1</dt>
                <dd>The contents of the cell are rotated 90 degrees counterclockwise.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>0</dt>
                <dd>No rotation <ph>occurs</ph>.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/ditauseconref">
                <dt/>
                <dd/>
              </dlentry>
            </dl><p>If this attribute is not specified, no rotation <ph>occurs</ph>. In situations
              where a stylesheet or other formatting mechanism specifies table cell orientation, the
                <xmlatt>rotate</xmlatt> attribute can be ignored.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>colname</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the column name in which an entry is found. <ph>The value is a reference to
              the <xmlatt>colname</xmlatt> attribute on the <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement>
              element.</ph>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>namest</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the first logical column that is included in a horizontal span. <ph>The
              value is a reference to the <xmlatt>colname</xmlatt> attribute on the
                <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement> element.</ph>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>nameend</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the last logical column that is included in a horizontal span. <ph>The value
              is a reference to the <xmlatt>colname</xmlatt> attribute on the
                <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement> element.</ph>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>morerows</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the number of additional rows to add in a vertical span. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>scope</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd><!--RDA 2014-03-13: Updated descriptions per: https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/email/archives/201312/msg00103.html-->The
            presence of the <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> attribute indicates that the current entry is a
            header for the specified scope. Allowable values are:<dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>row</dt>
                <dd>The current entry is a header for all cells in the row.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>col</dt>
                <dd>The current entry is a header for all cells in the column.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>rowgroup</dt>
                <dd>The current entry is a header for all cells in the rows spanned by this
                  entry.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>colgroup</dt>
                <dd>The current entry is a header for all cells in the columns spanned by this
                  entry.</dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>headers</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Identifies one or more entry element headers that apply to its entry. The
              <xmlatt>headers</xmlatt> attribute contains an unordered set of unique space-separated
            tokens, each of which is an ID reference of an entry from the same table. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title><p>See <xref href="table.dita"/>.</p></example>
  </refbody>
</reference>
