<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="enumerationdef" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>enumerationdef</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc rev="review-d">An enumeration definition is a binding of an
    attribute to a set of controlled values. The set of controlled values
    can be limited to a specific element or it could be empty.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
                <indexterm>subject
                scheme<indexterm>elements<indexterm><xmlelement>enumerationdef</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
        <section id="usage-information">
            <title>Usage information</title>
            <p>An enumeration definition can accomplish the following goals:</p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Bind a set of controlled values to an attribute</dt>
                    <dd>When the <xmlelement>enumerationdef</xmlelement>
            element contains only an <xmlelement>attributedef</xmlelement>
            and a <xmlelement>subjectdef</xmlelement> element, the set of
            controlled values that are bound to the attribute apply to all
            elements. For example, when
              <xmlelement>enumerationdef</xmlelement> contains only
              <codeph>&lt;attributedef name="value"/></codeph>, the
              <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> attribute is limited to the specified
            enumeration for all elements <ph rev="review-d">that can
              specify the <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> attribute.</ph></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Limit a set of controlled values to a specific element and attribute
                        pair</dt>
                    <dd>When the <xmlelement>enumerationdef</xmlelement> element contains an
                            <xmlelement>attributedef</xmlelement>, a
                            <xmlelement>subjectdef</xmlelement>, <b>and</b> an
                            <xmlelement>elementdef</xmlelement> element, the enumeration applies to
                        the specified attribute <b>only</b> on the specified element. The
                        enumeration does not apply to the attribute on other elements.<p
                            otherprops="examples">For example, when the
                                <xmlelement>enumerationdef</xmlelement> element contains both
                                <codeph>&lt;attributedef name="type"/></codeph> and
                                <codeph>&lt;elementdef name="note"/></codeph>, only the
                                <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute on the <xmlelement>note</xmlelement>
                            element is limited to the specified enumeration. The possible values for
                            the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute on other elements are not
                            affected.</p></dd>
                </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Specify the default value for an attribute or element and
            attribute pair</dt>
          <dd>When the <xmlelement>enumerationdef</xmlelement> element
            contains a <xmlelement>defaultSubject</xmlelement> element, <ph
              rev="review-a">processors operate as if the value specified
              by the <xmlelement>defaultSubject</xmlelement> element is
              explicitly set in the DITA source</ph>
            <ph rev="review-d">and the XML grammar does not set a default
              value for the attribute.</ph><div otherprops="examples">
              <p>For example, given the following
                  <xmlelement>enumerationdef</xmlelement> element, <ph
                  rev="review-d">if no value is set for the
                    <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt> attribute on
                    <xmlelement>draft-comment</xmlelement> in the DITA
                  source, processors operate as if the @audience attribute
                  is explicitly set to
                <keyword>spec-editors</keyword></ph>:</p>
              <codeblock>&lt;subjectScheme>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
  &lt;enumerationdef>
    &lt;elementdef name="draft-comment"/>
    &lt;attributedef name="audience"/>
    &lt;subjectdef keyref="values-audience-draft-comment"/>
    &lt;defaultSubject keyref="spec-editors"/>
  &lt;/enumerationdef>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/subjectScheme></codeblock>
            </div></dd>

        </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Specify that an attribute is not valid.</dt>
                    <dd><p>When the <xmlelement>enumerationdef</xmlelement> element <ph
                rev="review-d">contains a <xmlatt>subjectdef</xmlatt> element that does not
                reference a subject</ph>, no value is valid for the attribute.</p><p
              otherprops="examples"/>For example, the following code sample specifies that no tokens
            are valid for the <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attribute:<codeblock>&lt;subjectScheme>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
  &lt;enumerationdef>
    &lt;attributedef name="props"/>
    &lt;subjectdef/>
  &lt;/enumerationdef>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/subjectScheme></codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>

        </section>
        <section id="specialization-hierachy">
            <title>Specialization hierarchy</title>
            <p>The <xmlelement>enumerationdef</xmlelement> element is specialized from
                    <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>. It is defined in the subject scheme
                module.</p>
        </section>
    <section id="processing-expectations" rev="review-d">
      <title>Processing expectations</title>
      <p>See <xref
          href="../../archSpec/base/determining-effective-attribute-values.dita"
        /></p>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="11 January 2022">
        <p>We need to ensure that nothing in the "Usage information"
          section conflicts with what we specify in the final topic about
          "Determining effective attribute values.</p>
      </draft-comment>
    </section>
        <section id="attributes">
            <title>Attributes</title>
            <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <ph
          conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-idandconrefatts"/>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-universal/attr-status"
          ><xmlatt>status</xmlatt></xref>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-universal/attr-base"
          ><xmlatt>base</xmlatt></xref>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-universal/outputclass"
            ><xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt></xref>, and <xref
          keyref="attributes-universal/class"
        ><xmlatt>class</xmlatt></xref>.</p>
        </section>
        <example>
            <title>Example</title>
            <p>The following code sample contains three enumeration
        definitions:</p>
            <codeblock>&lt;subjectScheme>
    
    &lt;!-- DEFINE SETS OF CONTROLLED VALUES -->

    &lt;!-- 1. Values for @audience on &lt;draft-comment> -->
    &lt;subjectdef keys="values-audience-draft-comment">
        &lt;subjectdef keys="spec-editors"/>
        &lt;subjectdef keys="tc-reviewers"/>
    &lt;/subjectdef>
    
    &lt;!-- 2. Values for @otherprops -->
    &lt;subjectdef keys="values-otherprops">
        &lt;subjectdef keys="examples"/>
    &lt;/subjectdef>
    
    &lt;!-- BINDS SETS OF CONTROLLED VALUES -->

    &lt;!-- 1. Binding for @audience on &lt;draft-comment> -->
    &lt;enumerationdef>
        &lt;elementdef name="draft-comment"/>
        &lt;attributedef name="audience"/>
        &lt;subjectdef keyref="values-audience-draft-comment"/>
        &lt;defaultSubject keyref="spec-editors"/>
    &lt;/enumerationdef>
    
    &lt;!-- 2. Binding for @otherprops -->
    &lt;enumerationdef>
        &lt;attributedef name="otherprops"/>
        &lt;subjectdef keyref="values-otherprops"/>
    &lt;/enumerationdef>

    &lt;!-- 3. Binding for @props -->
    &lt;enumerationdef>
        &lt;attributedef name="props"/>
        <ph rev="review-d">&lt;subjectdef/></ph>
    &lt;/enumerationdef>

&lt;/subjectScheme></codeblock>
      <ol>
        <li>The permissible values for the <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>
          attribute on the <xmlelement>draft-comment</xmlelement> element
          are restricted to the subject
            <keyword>values-audience-draft-comment</keyword>. This means
          that the only allowed values are <keyword>spec-editors</keyword>
          and <keyword>tc-reviewers</keyword>. If no value for
            <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt> is specified for a
            <xmlelement>draft-comment</xmlelement> element in the DITA
          source, it is assumed to be set to
            <keyword>spec-editors</keyword>.</li>
        <li>The permissible values for <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt> are
          restricted to the subject <keyword>values-otherprops</keyword>.
          This means that the only valid value for
            <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt> is
          <keyword>examples</keyword>.</li>
        <li rev="review-d">The enumeration for the <xmlatt>props</xmlatt>
          attribute contains a <xmlelement>subjectdef</xmlelement> element
          that does not reference a subject. That means that no values are
          valid for the <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attribute.</li>
      </ol>
        </example>
</refbody>
</reference>

