<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="harvested-content-base">
 <title>Content removed from base element-reference topics</title>
 <conbody>
  <section>
   <title><xmlelement>div</xmlelement></title>
   <p>The <xmlelement>div</xmlelement> element is used to organize subsets of content into logical
    groups that are not intended to be or should not be contained as a topic.</p>
   <p>The <xmlelement>div</xmlelement> element cannot contain a title. This avoids enabling the
    creation of deeply-nested content that would otherwise be written as separate topics. If the
    content requires a title, use a <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> element, a nested
     <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement>, or possibly a <xmlelement>fig</xmlelement> element.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title><xmlelement>draft-comment</xmlelement></title>
   <p>Authors can use the <xmlelement>draft-comment</xmlelement> element to ask a question or to
    make a comment that they want others to review. To indicate the source, date, or status of the
    draft comment, authors can use the <xmlatt>author</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>time</xmlatt>, or
     <xmlatt>disposition</xmlatt> attributes.</p>
  </section>
    <section>
      <title><xmlelement>fig</xmlelement></title>
      <p>Use the <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement> element, placed after the title, to provide a longer
        description of the figure. </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title><xmlelement>image</xmlelement></title>
      <p>The <xmlelement>image</xmlelement> element has an optional <xmlatt>placement</xmlatt>
        attribute that indicates whether the included graphic or artwork is rendered inline (a
        button or icon) or on a separate line for a larger image. There also are attributes that
        indicate the size to which the included graphic or artwork is scaled.</p>
      <p>To make the intent of the image more accessible for users using screen readers or text-only
        readers, authors should include a description of the image content in the
          <xmlelement>alt</xmlelement> element.</p>
    </section>
  <section>
   <title><xmlelement>keyword</xmlelement></title>
   <p>Where there is an element that has a better meaning for what you are describing, use that
    element. The <xmlelement>keyword</xmlelement> element is a generic element; use it when no other
    element applies.</p>
   <p>Specific markup recommendations:</p>
   <ul>
        <li>Use <xmlelement>apiname</xmlelement> for API names and <xmlelement>cmdname</xmlelement>
          for command names.</li>
        <li>Use <xref href="term.dita"><xmlelement>term</xmlelement></xref> to indicate what you are
          defining with inline paragraph definitions.</li>
        <li>Use <xref href="ph.dita"><xmlelement>ph</xmlelement></xref> for general phrases when
            <xmlelement>keyword</xmlelement> is not appropriate.</li>
        <li>Use <xmlelement>kwd</xmlelement> to indicate programming keywords in syntax diagrams and
          syntax phrases.</li>
      </ul>
   <p>All <xmlelement>keyword</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements in the
     <xmlelement>keywords</xmlelement> metadata element are considered part of the topic's metadata
    and should be processed as appropriate for the given output medium.</p>
   <p>While the <xmlelement>keyword</xmlelement> element can be used inline, the <xref
     href="keywords.dita"><xmlelement>keywords</xmlelement></xref> element is not an inline element.
    The <xmlelement>keywords</xmlelement> element only appears in the
     <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement> elements; it is used to
    specify keywords that apply to the topic.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title><xmlelement>lq</xmlelement></title>
   <p>Authors can use the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attributes to specify
    the source of the quotation. Use the quote element <xmlelement>q</xmlelement> for short
    quotations that are intended to be rendered inline. The <xmlelement>longquoteref</xmlelement>
    element is available for more complex references to the source of a quotation.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title><xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement></title>
   <p>The navigation title (<xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement>) is one of a set of alternative titles
    that can be included inside the <xmlelement>titlealts</xmlelement> element. This navigation
    title might differ from the first level heading that shows in the main browser window.</p>
  </section>
    <section>
      <title><xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement></title>
      <p>Typically, the metadata defined within the <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement> is displayed
        with the topic when the topic is rendered, but it might be used by processes that generate
        search indexes or customize navigation.</p>
    </section>
  <section>
   <title><xmlelement>q</xmlelement></title>
   <p>Authors should not add quote punctuation manually when using the <xmlelement>q</xmlelement>
    element. Use the long quote element (<xmlelement>lq</xmlelement>) for quotations that should be
    set off from the surrounding text or that contain multiple paragraphs.</p>
  </section>
    <section>
      <title><xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement></title>
      <p>The short description should be a single, concise paragraph containing one or two sentences
        of no more than 50 words.</p>
      <p>Use the <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element when the first paragraph of topic
        content is simple enough to be suitable for use as a link preview or for summaries.
        Otherwise use the <xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement> element to provide richer content around
        the <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement>. See the <xref href="abstract.dita"/> description for
        more information about the behavior of <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> in an
        abstract.</p>
      <p>While the <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element is optional, it is recommended that
        topics contain this element. When a topic contains only one paragraph, it is preferable to
        include the text in the <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> and omit the topic body or leave
        it empty. </p>
      <table colsep="0" frame="topbot" rowheader="firstcol" product="technicalContent"
        id="table_b1y_4yd_z1b">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="44*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="153*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1" valign="top">Type</entry>
              <entry colname="col2" valign="top">Recommended content</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Task</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">
                <p id="twhattosay">The short description should explain what the task information
                  helps users accomplish, the benefits of the task, or the purpose of the task. Do
                  not simply repeat the title. Try to include information that will help users
                  understand when the task is appropriate or why the task is necessary. Avoid
                  stating the obvious, such as <q>You can use XYZ to do A</q> as the only statement
                  in the short description for Task A. In some cases, add more information about why
                  the task is beneficial.</p>
                <p id="tphrasing">Do not use sentence fragments. Use complete sentences. Avoid
                  starting short descriptions with phrases such as <q>This topic describes . . .
                    .</q> or <q>This topic is about . . . .</q></p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Concept</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">
                <p id="cwhattosay">Introduce the concept and provide a concise answer to the
                  question "What is this?" and in some cases "Why do I care about this?" If the
                  concept is unfamiliar, you can start with a brief definition. Avoid using the
                  short description to lead in or build up to a topic. The short description
                  paragraph should contain the main point of the concept topic. The concept short
                  description should clearly apply to a concept. Avoid turning the concept topic
                  into a task. Do not simply repeat the title.</p>
                <p id="cphrasing">Do not use sentence fragments. Use complete sentences. Avoid
                  starting short descriptions with phrases such as <q>This topic describes . . .
                    .</q> or <q>This topic is about . . . .</q></p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Reference</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">
                <p id="rwhattosay">Briefly describe what the reference item does, what it is, or
                  what it is used for.</p>
                <p id="rphrasing">In most cases, use a complete sentence. You can use a sentence
                  fragment only for a topic that is very short, such as an API topic and each of its
                  subtopics. Use consistent phrasing across libraries and information centers so
                  that your information can be seamlessly integrated with another product's
                  information.</p>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title><xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement></title>
      <p>Choose the <xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement> element when you want to show information
        in regular rows and columns. For example, multi-column tabular data such as phone directory
        listings or parts lists are good candidates for <xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement>.
        Another good use of <xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement> is for information that seems to
        beg for a three-part definition list; the <xmlatt>keycol</xmlatt> attribute can be used to
        indicate which column represents the "key" or term-like column of the structure.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title><xmlelement>stentry</xmlelement></title>
      <p>You can place any number of <xmlelement>stentry</xmlelement> cells in either an
          <xmlelement>sthead</xmlelement> element (for headings) or <xmlelement>strow</xmlelement>
        element (for rows of data).</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title><xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement></title>
      <p>You can set the collection type of a parent <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> to determine
        how its children are related to each other. You can also express relationships among
          <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements by using group and table structures (such as
          <xmlelement>topicgroup</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>reltable</xmlelement>). Relationships
        are expressed as links in the output; by default, each participant in a relationship has
        links to the other participants in that relationship. </p>
      <p>You can fine tune the output from your map by setting different attributes on the
          <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element. For example, the <xmlatt>linking</xmlatt>
        attribute controls how a topic&apos;s relationships to other topics are expressed as links,
        and the <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt> attribute controls whether the topic shows up in TOC or
        navigation output.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title><xmlelement>u</xmlelement></title>
      <p>This element is part of the highlighting domain. Use this element only when a more
        semantically appropriate element is not available. For example, for specific items such as
        GUI controls, use the <xmlelement>uicontrol</xmlelement> element.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title><xmlelement>xref</xmlelement></title>
      <p>When creating a cross-reference, link to the element structure, not the
          <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element of the object. For example, to create a
        cross-reference to a figure, link to the <xmlelement>fig</xmlelement> element, not the
          <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element within the <xmlelement>fig</xmlelement> element.
        Output processing determines whether the text of the <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element
        is used to render the cross-reference.</p>
      <p>Cross references that link to elements in other topics can employ key-based addressing by
        using the <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute. This enables the cross-reference to point to
        different topics in the context of different top-level maps. Cross references that employ
        direct URI-based addressing using the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute create dependencies;
        if the topic with the cross-reference is included in a map, the target topic also might need
        to be included for the cross-reference to be resolvable in the context of that map. While
        you can use conditional processing to have different cross-references for different
        contexts, it is usually easier and more effective to use keys. By using keys, the
        cross-reference can be independent of the contexts it might be used in, because it is up to
        each different map to bind the key used by the cross-reference to the appropriate target. </p>
      <p>In many cases it is best to avoid inline cross references in favor of links of links that
        are generated by the <xref href="related-links.dita"/> element or relationship tables. Such
        links typically are rendered at the end of the topic. This prevents readers from leaving a
        topic and missing important information. Using relationship tables also enables the links to
        be managed at a DITA map level, making it possible for topics to be quickly integrated into
        new contexts without breaking links.</p>
    </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
