<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="hazardsymbol" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>hazardsymbol</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>hazardsymbol</xmlelement> element specifies
a graphic. The graphic might represent a hazard, a hazardous situation,
a result of not avoiding a hazard, or any combination of these messages.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>hazardsymbol</indexterm>
        <indexterm>hazard statement domain<indexterm>hazardsymbol</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>processing expectations<indexterm>hazardsymbol</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="processing-expectations">
      <title>Processing expectations</title>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="31 May 2018">
        <p>The following content should be shared with at least the <xmlelement>image</xmlelement>
          topic. We could use either branch filtering or scoped keys to ensure that each paragraph
          references the correct element name.</p>
      </draft-comment>
      <p>If the <xmlatt>height</xmlatt> attribute is specified on the
          <xmlelement>hazardsymbol</xmlelement> element, processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
          >SHOULD</term> scale the image to the specified size. If a <xmlatt>height</xmlatt>
        attribute is specified and no width value is specified, the width <term
          outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> be scaled by the same factor as the height. If both a
        height value and width value are specified, implementations <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
          >MAY</term> ignore one of the two values when they are unable to scale to each direction
        using different factors.</p>
      <p>If the <xmlatt>width</xmlatt> attribute is specified on the
          <xmlelement>hazardsymbol</xmlelement> element, processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
          >SHOULD</term> scale the image to the specified size. If a <xmlatt>width</xmlatt>
        attribute is specified and no height value is specified, the height <term
          outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> be scaled by the same factor as the width. If both a
        height value and width value are specified, implementations <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
          >MAY</term> ignore one of the two values when they are unable to scale to each direction
        using different factors.</p>
    </section>
<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance">
      <title>Specialization hierarchy</title>
      <p>The <xmlelement>hazardsymbol</xmlelement> element is specialized from
          <xmlelement>image</xmlelement> in the topic module. It is part of the hazard statement
        domain (hazard-d).</p></section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <!--Note that this is an exact copy of the attribute list for image, EXCEPT that this element dropped the deprecated alt and makes @href required, which makes it harder to reuse that full list. It is an exact copy of glossSymbol.-->
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          keyref="attributes-universal"/>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-keyref"><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></xref>, and the
        attributes defined below.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/image-href">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/image-scope">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/image-height">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/image-width">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/image-align">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/image-scale">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/image-scalefit">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/image-placement">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title><codeblock
xml:space="preserve">&lt;hazardstatement type="danger">
  &lt;messagepanel>
    &lt;typeofhazard>Rotating blade.&lt;/typeofhazard>
    &lt;consequence>Moving parts can crush and cut.&lt;/consequence>
    &lt;howtoavoid>Follow lockout procedure before servicing.&lt;/howtoavoid>
  &lt;/messagepanel>
  <b>&lt;hazardsymbol href="rotatingblade.png"/></b>
&lt;/hazardstatement></codeblock></example>
</refbody>
</reference>

