<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="include">
    <title><xmlelement>include</xmlelement></title>
    <shortdesc>The i<xmlelement>include</xmlelement> specifies that non-DITA content from a resource
        outside the current document should be placed at that location. The resource is specified
        using either a URI or a key reference. Processing expectations for the referenced data can
        also be specified.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>elements<indexterm>body<indexterm>include</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>include</indexterm>
                <indexterm>links<indexterm>inclusion</indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <refbody>
        <section id="usage-information">
            <title>Usage information</title>
            <p>The <xmlelement>include</xmlelement> element is primarily intended for the following
                use cases:</p>
            <ul>
                <li>The transclusion of non-DITA XML within <xmlelement>foreign</xmlelement> element
                    using <codeph>parse="xml"</codeph>.</li>
                <li>The transclusion of preformatted textual content within
                        <xmlelement>pre</xmlelement> element using
                    <codeph>parse="text"</codeph>.</li>
                <li>The transclusion of plain-text prose within DITA elements using
                        <codeph>parse="text"</codeph>.</li>
            </ul>
            <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="29 April 2019">
                <p>Do we want to mention that <xmlelement>include</xmlelement> is the specialization
                    base for <xmlelement>coderef</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>svgref</xmlelement>, and
                        <xmlelement>mathmlref</xmlelement>?</p>
            </draft-comment>
            <p>It is an error when the <xmlelement>include</xmlelement> element is used to reference
                DITA content. Authors should use <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> or
                    <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> to reuse DITA content.</p>
            <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="29 April 2019">
                <p>We no longer use the above sort of wording. What is the pattern that we replaced
                    it with? We probably should locate information about any error warnings in the
                    "Processing expectations" section.  Do we want to make the statement about
                    attributes author should use?</p>
            </draft-comment>
        </section>
        <!--<section id="rendering-expectations"><title>Rendering expectations</title><p>The <xmlelement>include</xmlelement> element should not normally be visible in processed output, though indications of its boundaries may be presented in authoring or debugging usage contexts. It should be replaced either by the content it references or by the contents of its <xmlelement>fallback</xmlelement> element.</p></section>-->
        <section id="processing-expectations">
            <title>Processing expectations</title>
            <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="29 April 2019">
                <p>What of the content in this section (not yet edited) should be normative
                    statements?</p>
            </draft-comment>
            <p>The <xmlelement>include</xmlelement> element instructs processors to insert the
                contents of the referenced resource at the location of the
                    <xmlelement>include</xmlelement> element. If the content is unavailable to the
                processor or cannot be processed using the specified <xmlatt>parse</xmlatt> value,
                the contents of the <xmlelement>fallback</xmlelement> element, if any, are presented
                instead. If the processor cannot process the referenced content using the rules
                implied by the <xmlatt>parse</xmlatt> attribute, either because the referenced
                scheme is not supported or because there was a processing error, processors should
                issue a warning or error.</p>
            <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="29 April 2019">
                <p>Shouldn't the following content (not yet edited) be located in the "Attributes"
                    section?</p>
            </draft-comment>
            <p>The <xmlatt>parse</xmlatt> attribute specifies the processing expectations for the
                referenced resource. Processors must support the following values:</p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>text</dt>
                    <dd>
                        <p>The contents should be treated as plain text. Reserved XML characters
                            should be displayed, and not interpreted as XML markup.</p>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>xml</dt>
                    <dd>
                        <p>The contents of the referenced resource should be treated as an XML
                            document, and the referenced element should be inserted at the location
                            of the <xmlelement>include</xmlelement> element. If a fragment
                            identifier is included in the address of the content, processors must
                            select the element with the specified ID. If no fragment identifier is
                            included, the root element of the referenced XML document is selected.
                            Any grammar processing should be performed during resolution, such that
                            default attribute values are explicitly populated. Prolog content must
                            be discarded.</p>
                        <p>It is an error to use <codeph>parse="xml"</codeph> anywhere other than
                            within <xmlelement>foreign</xmlelement> or a specialization thereof.</p>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
            <p>Processors may support other values for the <xmlatt>parse</xmlatt> attribute with
                proprietary processing semantics. Processors should issue warnings and use
                    <xmlelement>fallback</xmlelement> when they encounter unsupported
                    <xmlatt>parse</xmlatt> values. Non-standard <xmlatt>parse</xmlatt> instructions
                should be expressed as URIs.</p>
            <note>Proprietary <xmlatt>parse</xmlatt> values will likely limit the portability and
                interoperability of DITA content, so should be used with care.</note>
            <p>The <xmlatt>encoding</xmlatt> attribute specifies the character encoding to use when
                translating the character data from the referenced content. If not specified,
                processors may make attempts to automatically determine the correct encoding, for
                example using HTTP headers, through analysis of the binary structure of the
                referenced data, or the <xmlpi>xml</xmlpi> processing instruction when including XML
                as text. The resource should be treated as UTF-8 if no other encoding information
                can be determined.</p>
            <p>When <codeph>parse="xml"</codeph>, standard XML parsing rules apply for the detection
                of character encoding. The necessity and uses of <xmlatt>encoding</xmlatt> for
                non-standard values of <xmlatt>parse</xmlatt> are implementation-dependent.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="attributes">
            <title>Attributes</title>
            <p>The following attributes are available on this element:  <xref
                    keyref="attributes-universal"/>, <xref>Link relationship attribute group</xref>,
                        <xref><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></xref> and the attributes defined below.</p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><xmlatt>parse</xmlatt></dt>
                    <dd>Indicates the processing expectations for the referenced non-DITA
                        content.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><xmlatt>encoding</xmlatt></dt>
                    <dd>
                        <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="29 April 2019">
                            <p>Can we replace "should" in the following definition?</p>
                        </draft-comment>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>Indicates the encoding that processors use when interpreting textual data.
                        The value should be a valid encoding name. </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
        </section>
        <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
            <title>Examples</title>
            <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="29 April 2019">
                <p>Need to edit – also, I think we need an example that illustrates using
                        <xmlelement>include</xmlelement> for specialization</p>
            </draft-comment>
            <p>For the most part, <xmlelement>include</xmlelement> should be used as a basis for
                specialization. The following examples use it directly for purposes of
                illustration.</p>
            <fig>
                <title>Inclusion of XML markup other than SVG or MathML</title>
                <codeblock>
&lt;fig>
  &lt;title>JSP Tag Library Elements and Attributes&lt;/title>
  &lt;foreign outputclass="tld">
    &lt;include href="../src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/jsp-tag-library.tld"
             parse="xml" format="tld"/>
  &lt;/foreign>
&lt;/fig></codeblock>
            </fig>
            <fig>
                <title>Inclusion of README text into a DITA topic, with fallback</title>
                <p>
                    <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="29 April 2019">
                        <p>I can't imagine including a readme file into a short description ...</p>
                    </draft-comment>
                </p>
                <codeblock>
&lt;shortdesc>
  &lt;include href="../src/README.txt" parse="text" encoding="UTF-8">
    &lt;fallback>This topic describes XYZ.&lt;/fallback>
  &lt;/include>
&lt;/shortdesc></codeblock>
            </fig>
            <fig>
                <title>Inclusion of preformatted text</title>
                <codeblock>
&lt;pre>
  &lt;include href="../src/config.json" format="json" parse="text" encoding="UTF-8"/>
&lt;/pre></codeblock>
            </fig>
            <fig>
                <title>Inclusion of README as Markdown converted to DITA using a proprietary
                    @parse value, with fallback</title>
                <codeblock>
&lt;section>
  &lt;include href="about.md" encoding="UTF-8"
    parse="http://www.example.com/dita/includeParsers/markdown-to-dita">
      &lt;fallback>This section not available.&lt;/fallback>
  &lt;/include>
&lt;/section></codeblock>
            </fig>
            <fig>
                <title>Proprietary vendor handling for CSV tables</title>
                <codeblock>
&lt;fig>
  &lt;title>Data Table&lt;/title>
  &lt;include href="data.csv"  encoding="UTF-8"
    parse="http://www.example.com/dita/includeParsers/csv-to-simpletable"/>
&lt;/fig></codeblock>
            </fig>
        </example>
    </refbody>
</reference>
