<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="indexterm" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The content of an <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element is used to produce an index
    entry in a generated index. You can nest <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements to create
    multi-level indexes. The content is not output as part of the topic content, only as part of an
    index.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>indexterm</indexterm>
        <indexterm>indexing domain<indexterm>indexterm</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>An <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element without the <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> or
          <xmlatt>end</xmlatt> attribute specified is interpreted as a point reference that
        contributes the number of the current page to an index entry; the content of the index entry
        is the content of the <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element. All
          <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements with the same content are "merged" to form a
        single index entry in the resulting index, and all contributed page numbers are included in
        that index entry.</p>
      <p>In the case of nested <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements, each
          <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> with no <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> children
        (the "leaves") contributes a page number to the generated index; the ancestral
          <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements for each leaf
          <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> provide the higher levels for the multilevel entry.</p>
      <p>An <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> that occurs in a topic
          <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement> is interpreted as a point reference to the title of the
        topic. Likewise, in a DITA map, an <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> that occurs in
          <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> inside of a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> is
        interpreted as a point reference to the title of the referenced topic.</p>
      <note>The <xmlelement>index-see</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>index-see-also</xmlelement>
        elements are domain specializations of the <xmlelement>index-base</xmlelement> element, and
        are discussed in detail with the indexing domain.</note>
      <p>The <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>end</xmlatt> attribute on
          <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> can be used in cases where one wants to index an
        extended discussion that might continue over a number of pages. The start of a range is
        indicated by an <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> with a <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> attribute.
        The end of a range is indicated with an <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> with an
          <xmlatt>end</xmlatt> attribute whose value matches that of the <xmlatt>start</xmlatt>
        attribute on the start-of-range <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement>. Such markup contributes
        to the generated index a page range covering all pages in the index range. </p>
      <p>Index range indications can occur in the <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> of a
          <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> at the map level, in the prolog of a topic, or in the
        body of a topic, and are interpreted as follows (see <xref href="#indexterm/ranges"
          type="fig"/> for samples):</p>
      <ul id="ul_cyg_1pf_bbb">
        <li>In a map, the start range points to the start of the topic title of the topic being
          referenced by its containing <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>. The end range points to
          the end of the final child contained by the topic being referenced by its containing
            <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>, or to the end of the final topic referenced by the
          current map (whichever comes first). When a start and end range occur in the same
            <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement>, the range applies to the containing
            <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> and its children.</li>
        <li>In the prolog of a topic, the start range points to the start of the containing topic's
          title. The range ends with a matching index range end in the same prolog, regardless of
          whether the end range is specified. The range applies to the containing topic and all its
          children including child relationships defined in a map.</li>
        <li>In the body of a topic, the range starts where the start
            <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> occurs and ends at the matching index range end
          indication within the same body, or at the end of the body, whichever comes first. Such an
          index range does not span sub-topics of the topic.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="rendering-expectations">
      <title>Rendering expectations</title>
    </section>
    <section id="processing-expectations">
      <title>Processing expectations</title>
      <p>It is an error if an <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> containing no
          <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> children contains both an
          <xmlelement>index-see</xmlelement> and an <xmlelement>index-see-also</xmlelement>. (Note:
          <xmlelement>index-see</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>index-see-also</xmlelement> elements
        within <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements that do contain
          <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> children are ignored.) In the case of this error
        condition, an implementation <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> give an error message,
        and <ph>might</ph> recover by treating all such <xmlelement>index-see</xmlelement> elements
        as <xmlelement>index-see-also</xmlelement> elements.</p>
      <p>The <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>end</xmlatt> attributes are defined as CDATA,
          <ph>although it is a best practice</ph> that the values should not contain any whitespace
        characters (such as a space or tab) or control characters. Matching of
          <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>end</xmlatt> attributes is done as a
        character-by-character comparison with all characters significant and no case folding
        occurring. The <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>end</xmlatt> attributes are ignored if
        they occur on an <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element that has child
          <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements.</p>
      <p>The end-of-range <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> should have no content of its own; if
        it contains content, that content is ignored. There is no reason for the end-of-range
          <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> to have any <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement>
        ancestors; however, an implementation should be able to handle an end-of-range
          <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> that is nested within one or more
          <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements.</p>
      <p>When index ranges with the same identifier overlap, the widest range applies, and end
        ranges are matched with start ranges by last-in-first-out. In other words, the ranges are
        interpreted as nested rather than overlapping with the highest-level container taking
        precedence over narrower contained ranges.</p>
      <p>As defined above, there is no such thing as an index range start that isn't terminated by
        either a matching end or some maximum scope. There can, however, be unmatched index range
        end indications; these are ignored.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          keyref="attributes-universal"/>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-keyref"><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></xref>, and the
        attributes defined below.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="start">
          <dt><xmlatt>start</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies that an index entry is positioned at the beginning of a range. The value
            matches the <xmlatt>end</xmlatt> attribute on another
            <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement>. <?datatype CDATA?><?default #IMPLIED?></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="end">
          <dt><xmlatt>end</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies that an index entry is positioned at the end of a range; value matches the
              <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> attribute on another <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement>.
            <?datatype CDATA?><?default #IMPLIED?></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title><fig><title>Single
point index terms</title>
<ul>
<li>The following <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> is a point reference to a specific paragraph
            within a topic:
            <codeblock>&lt;p>&lt;indexterm>databases&lt;/indexterm>Databases are used to ...&lt;/p></codeblock></li>
<li>The following <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> is a point reference to the start of the title
            of the
            concept:<codeblock>&lt;concept id="db">
  &lt;title>About databases&lt;/title>
  &lt;prolog>
    &lt;metadata>
      &lt;keywords>&lt;indexterm>databases&lt;/indexterm>&lt;/keywords>
    &lt;/metadata>
  &lt;/prolog>
  &lt;body>&lt;!-- content... -->&lt;/body>
&lt;/concept></codeblock></li>
<li>The following <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> is a point reference to the start of the title
            of
            <filepath>aboutdatabases.dita</filepath>:<codeblock>&lt;topicref href="aboutdatabases.dita">
  &lt;topicmeta>
    &lt;keywords>&lt;indexterm>databases&lt;/indexterm>&lt;/keywords>
  &lt;/topicmeta>
  &lt;!-- other topicref elements -->
&lt;/topicref></codeblock></li>
</ul>
</fig><fig><title>Nested index terms</title>
<p>The following sample represents three levels of index markup:<codeblock>&lt;indexterm>cheese
  &lt;indexterm>sheeps milk
    &lt;indexterm>pecorino&lt;/indexterm>
  &lt;/indexterm>
  &lt;indexterm>goats milk
    &lt;indexterm>chevre&lt;/indexterm>
  &lt;/indexterm>
&lt;/indexterm></codeblock></p>
<p>The previous sample is equivalent to the following sample:<codeblock
xml:space="preserve">&lt;indexterm>cheese
  &lt;indexterm>sheeps milk
    &lt;indexterm>pecorino&lt;/indexterm>
  &lt;/indexterm>
&lt;/indexterm>
&lt;indexterm>cheese
  &lt;indexterm>goats milk
    &lt;indexterm>chevre&lt;/indexterm>
  &lt;/indexterm>
&lt;/indexterm></codeblock></p>
<p>In each case, a generated index would include something like the
this:<ul>
<li>cheese<ul>
<li>goats milk<ul>
<li>chevre 14</li>
</ul></li>
</ul><ul>
<li>sheeps milk<ul>
<li>pecorino 14</li>
</ul></li>
</ul></li>
</ul></p>
</fig><fig id="ranges"><title>Index ranges</title>
<p>A simple index range will look something like this:<codeblock>&lt;indexterm start="cheese">Cheese&lt;/indexterm>
&lt;!-- ... additional content -->
&lt;indexterm end="cheese"/></codeblock></p>
<p>The previous combination of terms will generate a top-level index
term for "Cheese" that covers a series of pages, such as:<ul>
<li>Cheese 18-24</li>
</ul></p>
<p>Specifying a range for nested terms is similar. In this sample,
the range is specified for the tertiary index entry "pecorino":<codeblock>&lt;indexterm>cheese
  &lt;indexterm>sheeps milk
    &lt;indexterm start="level-3-pecorino">pecorino&lt;/indexterm>
  &lt;/indexterm>
&lt;/indexterm>
 &lt;!-- ... additional content ... -->
&lt;indexterm end="level-3-pecorino"/></codeblock></p>
<p>The generated index for that range would look something like this: <ul>
<li>cheese<ul>
<li>sheeps milk<ul>
<li>pecorino 18-24</li>
</ul></li>
</ul></li>
</ul></p>
<p>There are three locations that <ph >can</ph> declare a range - the body of a
          topic, the prolog of a topic, and a map.</p>
<ul>
<li>In the following example, the range begins at the start of the
second paragraph, and continues to the last paragraph. If the matching
end range was not included, the range would end at the end of the
body element.<codeblock>&lt;topic id="accounting">
  &lt;title>Accounting regulations&lt;/title>
  &lt;body>
    &lt;p>Be ethical in your accounting.&lt;/p>
    &lt;p>&lt;indexterm start="acctrules">Rules&lt;/indexterm>Remember to do all of the following: ...&lt;/p>
    &lt;!-- ...pages worth of rules... -->
    &lt;p>&lt;indexterm end="acctrules"/>Failure to comply will get you audited.&lt;/p>
  &lt;/body>
  &lt;!-- Potential sub-topics -->
&lt;/topic></codeblock></li>
<li>In the following example, the range begins with the start of the topic&apos;s title, and covers
the entire topic and any sub-topics. The range ends within the same prolog, regardless of whether
<codeph>&lt;indexterm end="acct"/></codeph> is specified in the
prolog.<codeblock>&lt;topic id="accounting">
  &lt;title>Accounting regulations&lt;/title>
  &lt;prolog>
    &lt;metadata>
      &lt;keywords>&lt;indexterm start="acct">Accounting&lt;/indexterm>&lt;/keywords>
    &lt;/metadata>
  &lt;/prolog>
  &lt;!-- Body and sub-topics -->
&lt;/topic></codeblock></li>
<li>Now assume that the topic in the previous sample is named <filepath>acct.dita</filepath>. Ranges
            defined in a prolog cover sub-topics, including those nested based on a map; in the
            following example, this means that the range covers all of
              <filepath>acct.dita</filepath>, as well as <filepath>procedures.dita</filepath> and
              <filepath>forms.dita</filepath>:<codeblock>&lt;topicref href="acct.dita">
  &lt;topicref href="procedures.dita"/>
  &lt;topicref href="forms.dita"/>
&lt;/topicref></codeblock></li>
<li>In the final example, the range is specified in a map. The index range for "Accounting" begins
            with the start of the first topic title in <filepath>acct.dita</filepath>, and covers
            that file as well as any sub-topics. The index range for "Government forms" begins with
            the start of the first topic title in <filepath>acct.dita</filepath>, and continues
            until the end of the last element in the file <filepath>taxfiling.dita</filepath>. If
            the end range for "govt" was not specified, the range would continue to the end of the
            map.<codeblock>&lt;topicref href="acct.dita">
  &lt;topicmeta>
    &lt;keywords>
      &lt;indexterm start="acct">Accounting&lt;/indexterm>
      &lt;indexterm end="acct"/>
      &lt;indexterm start="govt">Government forms&lt;/indexterm>
    &lt;/keywords>
  &lt;/topicmeta>
  &lt;!-- Nested topicref elements -->
&lt;/topicref>
&lt;topicref href="taxfiling.dita">
  &lt;topicmeta>
    &lt;keywords>
      &lt;indexterm end="govt"/>
    &lt;/keywords>
  &lt;/topicmeta>
&lt;/topicref></codeblock></li>
</ul>
</fig>
      <fig >
        <title>Index term with <xmlelement>ph</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>ph</xmlelement>
          specializations</title>
        <codeblock>&lt;p>Einstein's most famous equation
E=mc&lt;sup>2&lt;/sup>&lt;indexterm>E=mc&lt;sup>2&lt;/sup>&lt;/indexterm> 
expresses the relationship between mass and energy.&lt;/p></codeblock>
        <p>All the elements in the highlighting domain are specializations of
            <xmlelement>ph</xmlelement>.</p>
      </fig></example>
</refbody>
</reference>

