<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="index-sort-as" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>index-sort-as</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>index-sort-as</xmlelement> element specifies a sort phrase under which an
index entry would be sorted.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>index-sort-as</indexterm>
    <indexterm>indexing domain<indexterm>index-sort-as</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
                <section id="usage-information">
                        <title>Usage information</title>
                        <p>This element gives an author the flexibility to sort an index entry in an
                                index differently from how its text normally would be sorted. The
                                common use for this is to disregard insignificant leading text, such
                                as punctuation or words like "the" or "a". For example, the author
                                mighgt want <codeph>&lt;data&gt;</codeph> to be sorted under the
                                letter D rather than the left angle bracket (&lt;). An author might
                                want to include such an entry under both the punctuation heading and
                                the letter D, in which case there can be two index entry directives
                                differentiated only by the sort order. </p>
                        <p>Certain languages have special sort order needs. For example, Japanese
                                index entries might be written partially or wholly in kanji, but
                                need to be sorted in phonetic order according to its
                                hiragana/katakana rendition. There is no reliable automated way to
                                map written to phonetic text: for kanji text, there can be multiple
                                phonetic possibilities depending on the context. The only way to
                                correctly sort Japanese index entries is to keep the phonetic
                                counterparts with the written forms. The phonetic text would be
                                presented as the sort order text for indexing purposes.</p>
                        <p>The <xmlelement>index-sort-as</xmlelement> element's content is logically
                                augmented by the textual content of its parent
                                        <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element to produce the
                                effective sort phrase (in other words, the textual content acts as a
                                secondary sort field), so two <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement>
                                elements with different content but the same
                                        <xmlelement>index-sort-as</xmlelement> value would never
                                merge into a single index entry.</p>
                        <p>An <xmlelement>index-sort-as</xmlelement> element provides sort phrase
                                information for the <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> that is its
                                parent; therefore, in a multiple level
                                        <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement>, the
                                        <xmlelement>index-sort-as</xmlelement> only affects the
                                level in which it occurs.</p>
                </section>
                <section id="processing-expectations">
                        <title>Processing expectations</title>
                        <p>When an <xmlelement>index-sort-as</xmlelement> element is specified,
                                processors that sort the containing index term <term
                                        outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> construct the effective
                                sort phrase by prepending the content of the
                                        <xmlelement>index-sort-as</xmlelement> element to the
                                textual content of its parent <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement>
                                element. This ensures that two index entries with the same
                                        <xmlelement>index-sort-as</xmlelement> element but different
                                base sort phrases will sort in the appropriate order, and will not
                                merge into a single index entry.</p>
                        <p id="multiple-index-sort-as">It is an error if there is more than one
                                        <xmlelement>index-sort-as</xmlelement> child for a given
                                        <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement>. An implementation might
                                give an error message, and might recover from this error condition
                                by ignoring all but the last
                                <xmlelement>index-sort-as</xmlelement>.</p>
                        <p><ph conref="../../common/conref-file.dita#reuse_file/index-sort-as"
                                        id="sort-as-error"/></p>
                </section>
<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance">
                        <title>Specialization hierarchy</title><p>+
topic/index-base indexing-d/index-sort-as </p></section>
                <section id="attributes">
                        <title>Attributes</title>
                        <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
                                        keyref="attributes-universal"/> and <xref
                                        href="../attributes/thekeyrefattribute.dita"
                                                ><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></xref>.</p>
                </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><p>This is an example of an index entry for <codeph>&lt;data&gt;</codeph> that will be sorted as
"data":</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">&lt;indexterm&gt;&amp;lt;data&amp;gt;&lt;index-sort-as&gt;data&lt;/index-sort-as&gt;&lt;/indexterm&gt;</codeblock></example>
</refbody>
</reference>
