<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="keydef" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc conkeyref="library-short-descriptions/keydef"/>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>convenience
          elements<indexterm><xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>elements<indexterm>mapgroup<indexterm><xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>keys<indexterm>definition<indexterm>examples</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>maps<indexterm>examples<indexterm>key
          definition</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="usage-information">
<title>Usage information</title>
<p>The <xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement> element is a convenience element. Anything that the
          <xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement> element  does can also be accomplished with a
          <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element.  Attributes defaulted on the
          <xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement> element ensure that key definitions do not appear in the
        TOC, do not add extra links, and are not rendered as topics .</p>
</section>
    <!--<section id="processing-expectations"><title>Processing expectations</title><p>The <xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement> element has several defaulted attribute values that processors might want to be aware of; as long as the default values are respected, no additional processing expectations exist beyond what those same attributes do for <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>.</p></section>-->
<section id="specialization-hierarchy">
<title>Specialization hierarchy</title>
<p>The <xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement> element is specialized from
<xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>. It is defined in the mapgroup-domain module.</p>
</section>
<section id="attributes">
<title>Attributes</title>
<sectiondiv id="keydef-attributes">
<p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref keyref="attributes-universal"/>,
<xref keyref="attributes-linkRelationship"/> (with a narrowed definition of <xmlatt>href</xmlatt>,
given below), <xref keyref="attributes-commonMap"/> (with a narrowed definition of
<xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt>, given below), <xref keyref="attributes-topicrefElement"/>, <xref
keyref="attributes-keyref"><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></xref>, and the attributes defined below.</p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt><xmlatt>keys</xmlatt>
              <ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/required-attr"/></dt>
            <dd>Defines a key and is required. Otherwise,the attribute is the same as that described
              in <xref keyref="attributes-keys"/>.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/href-on-topicref">
<dt/>
<dd/>
</dlentry>
<dlentry
conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/processing-role-default-resource-only">
<dt/>
<dd/>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</sectiondiv>
</section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title>
<p>The following code sample shows several different types of key definitions:</p><codeblock>&lt;map>
  &lt;title>Possible keys for use in the DITA specification&lt;/title>

  &lt;keydef keys="dita-tc" scope="external" format="html"
          href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=dita">
    &lt;topicmeta>&lt;linktext>DITA Technical Committee&lt;/linktext>&lt;/topicmeta>
  &lt;/keydef>

  &lt;keydef keys="addressing" href="dita-addressing.dita"/>

  &lt;keydef keys="dita-version">
    &lt;topicmeta>&lt;linktext>2.0&lt;/linktext>&lt;/topicmeta>
  &lt;/keydef>

&lt;/map></codeblock>
      <ol>
        <li>The first <xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement> defines a key that links to a Web page. It
          contains link text; it also specifies the necessary <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> and
            <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attributes, so that authors do not need to include them when
          they reference this key.</li>
        <li>The second <xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement> defines a key for a local DITA topic about
          addressing in DITA; that topic is available to resolve link text.</li>
        <li>The third <xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement> defines a text-only key that specifies the
          current DITA version number.</li>
      </ol></example>
</refbody>
</reference>

