<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="lines" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>lines</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>Lines are lines of text where line breaks are significant but white space is not. It can
    be used to represent dialogs, poetry, or other text fragments where line breaks are
    significant.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>elements<indexterm>body<indexterm><xmlelement>lines</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>formatting
          expectations<indexterm><xmlelement>lines</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="formatting-expectations">
      <title>Formatting expectations</title>
      <p>Although rendering is left up to the implementation, processors typically use the following
        conventions:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Line breaks are preserved.</li>
        <li>Extra white space within the <xmlelement>lines</xmlelement> element is not
          preserved.</li>
        <li>The font style is not monospaced.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          href="../attributes/universalAttributes.dita"/>, <xref
          href="../attributes/displayAttributes.dita"/>, <xref
          href="../attributes/commonAttributes.dita#common-atts/xmlspace"/>, and <xref
          href="../attributes/specializationAttributes.dita#specialization-atts/spectitle"/>.</p>
    </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title><codeblock>&lt;p>This is a sample of my favorite sonnet:&lt;/p>
&lt;lines&gt;
Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?
Thou art more lovely and more temperate:
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
and summer's lease hath all too short a date:
...&lt;/lines&gt;
</codeblock><p>Though exact formatting will vary, the previous sample
will typically be rendered as follows.</p><p>This is a sample of my
favorite sonnet<lines>Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?
Thou art more lovely and more temperate:
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
and summer's lease hath all too short a date:
...</lines></p></example>
</refbody>
</reference>
