<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="linktitle" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title><xmlelement>linktitle</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc>A link title is an alternative title for a resource. It is
    designed for use when a hyperlink or a cross-reference to a resource is
    generated based on relationships described in a DITA map.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>alternative
              titles<indexterm><xmlelement>linktitle</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>alternative titles
              domain<indexterm><xmlelement>linktitle</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>processing
              expectations<indexterm><xmlelement>linktitle</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>The <xmlelement>linktitle</xmlelement> element is a convenience
        element. It is equivalent to a <xmlelement>titlealt</xmlelement>
        element with <xmlatt>title-role</xmlatt> set to
          <keyword>linking</keyword>. </p>
      <p>Features of DITA maps, such as relationship tables and <ph
          rev="review-a">hierarchies</ph> created by nesting
          <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements, generate the
        following kinds of links:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Links from a topic to its child topics in the map
          hierarchy</li>
        <li>Links from a topic to its parent topic in the map
          hierarchy</li>
        <li>Links between sibling topics when the
            <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> attribute of the parent
            <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element is set to
            <keyword>sequence</keyword> or <keyword>family</keyword></li>
      </ul>
      <p>Processors also might use a link title for custom linking
        scenarios.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="processing-expectations">
      <title>Processing expectations</title>
      <p>Processing expectations are dictated by the rules for the
          <xmlelement>titlealt</xmlelement> element.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="specialization-hierachy">
      <title>Specialization hierarchy</title>
      <p>The <xmlelement>linktitle</xmlelement> element is specialized from
          <xmlelement>titlealt</xmlelement>. It is defined in the
        alternative-titles domain module.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <ph
          conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-universalatts"/> and <xref
          keyref="attributes-common/attr-title-role"
            ><xmlatt>title-role</xmlatt></xref>.</p>
      <p id="attr-exception" outputclass="attr-exception">For this element,
          <xmlatt>title-role</xmlatt> has a default value of
          <keyword>linking</keyword>.</p>
    </section>
    <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Examples</title>
      <p>This section contains examples of how the
          <xmlelement>linktitle</xmlelement> element can be used.</p>
      <fig>
        <title>Link title within a map</title>
        <p>The following code sample shows how a
            <xmlelement>linktitle</xmlelement> element can be used to
          provide text for a related link to a non-DITA resource:</p>
        <codeblock>&lt;topicref href="SQLJ-example.html" format="html" scope="local"&gt;
  &lt;topicmeta>
    &lt;linktitle&gt;Accessing relational data with SQLJ&lt;/linktitle&gt;
  &lt;/topicmeta>
&lt;/topicref></codeblock>
      </fig>
      <fig>
        <title>Link title within a topic</title>
        <p>The following code sample shows how a
            <xmlelement>linktitle</xmlelement> element can be used to
          provide text for generated links to a topic:</p>
        <codeblock>&lt;topic id="topic">
  &lt;title>Circuitry in the C-283 Drive Train&lt;/title>
  &lt;prolog>
    &lt;linktitle>Drive train circuitry&lt;/linktitle>
  &lt;/prolog>
</codeblock>
      </fig>
      <p>Note that this link title might be overridden by a link title that
        is specified in a DITA map that references the topic.</p>
    </example>
  </refbody>
</reference>
