<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="linkpool" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>linkpool</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>A link pool is a group of links; the order that the links are rendered in the output is
    determined by the processor.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
        <indexterm>elements<indexterm>related
              links<indexterm><xmlelement>linkpool</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>related links
          elements<indexterm><xmlelement>linkpool</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>Attributes that are set on the <xmlelement>linkpool</xmlelement> element cascade to the
        contained links.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="rendering-expectations">
      <title>Rendering expectations</title>
      <p>The order in which links in a <xmlelement>linkpool</xmlelement> element are rendered is
        processor-specific. A processor might order links based on role or type. A processor might
        move or remove links based on the context; for example, prerequisite links might be rendered
        at the beginning of a Web page, or links to the next topic might be removed if the two
        topics are rendered on the same page in a PDF. Processors might automatically sort some
        links, while others are left ordered as authored.</p>
    </section>
<section id="attributes"><title>Attributes</title>
   <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref keyref="attributes-universal"/>,
          <xref keyref="attributes-common/collection-type"><xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt></xref>,
          <xref keyref="attributes-common/attr-role"><xmlatt>role</xmlatt></xref>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-common/attr-otherrole"><xmlatt>otherrole</xmlatt></xref>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-common/attr-duplicates"><xmlatt>duplicates</xmlatt></xref>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-common/attr-format"><xmlatt>format</xmlatt></xref>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-common/attr-scope"><xmlatt>scope</xmlatt></xref>, and <xref
          keyref="attributes-common/attr-type"><xmlatt>type</xmlatt></xref>.</p>
   </section>
    <example id="example">
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>The following code sample shows how a <xmlelement>linkpool</xmlelement> element is used to
        group a set of conceptual information. The order in which the links are rendered in the
        output is processor-dependent.</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;related-links&gt;
  &lt;linkpool type="concept"&gt;
    &lt;link href="czez.dita#czez" role="next"/>
    &lt;link href="czunder.dita"/>
    &lt;link format="html" href="czover.htm#sqljsupp" role="parent"&gt;
      &lt;linktext>Overview of the CZ&lt;/linktext>
    &lt;/link>
    &lt;link format="html" href="czesqlj.htm#sqljemb"&gt;
      &lt;linktext>Working with CZESQLJ&lt;/linktext>
      &lt;desc>When you work with CZESQLJ, you need to know...&lt;/desc>
    &lt;/link>
  &lt;/linkpool&gt;
&lt;/related-links&gt;
</codeblock>
    </example>
</refbody>
</reference>
