<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="linklist" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>linklist</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>linklist</xmlelement> element defines an author-arranged group of
    links.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
        <indexterm>elements<indexterm>related
              links<indexterm><xmlelement>linklist</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>related links
          elements<indexterm><xmlelement>linklist</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>examples<indexterm>links<indexterm>order of links within
                <xmlelement>linklist</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>processing expectations<indexterm>links</indexterm><indexterm>order of links
            within <xmlelement>linklist</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>There are two ways to organize related information links within a topic. First, you can add
        them all in no particular order, either by using <xmlelement>linkpool</xmlelement> elements
        or by placing <xmlelement>link</xmlelement> elements directly within
          <xmlelement>related-links</xmlelement>, in which case the rendering is implementation
        dependent. For example, a tool could sort all links based on the role or type; a tool could
        also move or remove links to fit the context (for example, moving a prerequisite link to the
        top of a browser window, or removing links to the next topic if it is rendered on the same
        page in a PDF). These behaviors are examples only and are not required.</p>
      <!--Note: following section says "order of the links within each linklist is preserved". Think this originally intended an RFC "MUST" level requirement, but shortdesc in previous DITA versions used "should", so leaving this language unchanged for DITA 1.3.-->
      <p>Second, links can be grouped using one or more <xmlelement>linklist</xmlelement> elements.
        When you group them using <xmlelement>linklist</xmlelement>, then the order of the links
        within each <xmlelement>linklist</xmlelement> is preserved when rendered. You can also use a
        combination of the two approaches, which will allow some links to be automatically sorted
        while the others are left as-is.</p>
      <p>Attributes set on the <xmlelement>linkpool</xmlelement> and
          <xmlelement>linklist</xmlelement> elements are inherited by their descendants. For
        example, if you have a <xmlelement>linklist</xmlelement> element that contains all external
        links, you can set <codeph>scope="external"</codeph> on that outer
          <xmlelement>linklist</xmlelement> element and leave it off the
          <xmlelement>link</xmlelement> elements within that <xmlelement>linklist</xmlelement>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="rendering-expectations">
      <title>Rendering expectations</title>
      <p>When rendering links, processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> preserve the
        order of links specified within a <xmlelement>linklist</xmlelement> element.</p>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="01 June 2018" audience="tc-reviewers">
        <p>Change this to MUST for DITA 2.0?</p>
      </draft-comment>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref keyref="attributes-universal"
        />, <xref keyref="attributes-commonMap/collection-type"/>, <xref keyref="attributes-role"/>,
          <xref keyref="attributes-specialization/spectitle"/>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-common/mapkeyref"/>, and the attributes defined below. This element
        also uses <xmlatt>format</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt>, and <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> from
          <xref keyref="attributes-linkRelationship"/>. </p>
      <dl conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/linklist-and-linkpool">
        <dlentry>
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example</title>
      <codeblock>&lt;related-links>
  &lt;linklist scope="external">
    &lt;title>Example links&lt;/title>
    &lt;desc>These links will always appear in this order.&lt;/desc>
    &lt;link href="http://www.example.org">
      &lt;linktext>Example 1&lt;/linktext>
    &lt;/link>
    &lt;link href="http://www.example.com">
      &lt;linktext>Example 2&lt;/linktext>
    &lt;/link>
  &lt;/linklist>
&lt;/related-links></codeblock>
    </example>
</refbody>
</reference>
