<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="linktext" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>linktext</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc conkeyref="library-short-descriptions/linktext"/>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>elements<indexterm>related
      links<indexterm><xmlelement>linktext</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>links<indexterm>labels</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
<draft-comment author="robander">This usage information needs to be entirely reworked. It currently
contains processing information, tutorial information, and also ignores the fact that link text is
now often used for text within a key definition (that does not actually specify a
link).<p>Additionally: it says to use this ONLY when (x, y, or z) -- implying that it is incorrect
to use link text for links to local topics.</p></draft-comment>
      <p>For links to local DITA topics, the text of a link typically can be resolved during
                processing. Use the <xmlelement>linktext</xmlelement> element only when the target
                cannot be reached, such as when it is a peer or external link, or when the target is
                local but not in DITA format. When used inside a topic,
                    <xmlelement>linktext</xmlelement> is used as the text for the specified link;
                when used within a map, <xmlelement>linktext</xmlelement> is used as the text for
                generated links that point to the specified topic.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/only-universal"/>
    </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title>
<fig id="fig_jjs_czc_t2b"><title>Link text with key definitions</title><p>See <xref
href="keydef.dita"/> for an example of <xmlelement>linktext</xmlelement> used with key
definitions.</p></fig>
<fig id="fig_hq3_zxc_t2b"><title>Link text in a map</title><p>In the following code sample, link
text is specified for a local topic in a relationship table. This table will typically result in
links between the topic in the first cell and the topic in the second cell. The generated link from
<filepath>maintenance.dita</filepath> to <filepath>installation.dita</filepath> should use the
specified link text, while the link back from <filepath>installation.dita</filepath> to
<filepath>maintenance.dita</filepath> will use whatever link text the processor is able to
generate.</p><p>The link text should be used for any links generated , rather than generating text
based on the title of the
topic.</p><codeblock>&lt;map>
  &lt;title>Relationship map&lt;/title>
  &lt;reltable>
    &lt;relrow>
      &lt;relcell>
        &lt;topicref href="installation.dita">
          &lt;topicmeta>
            <b>&lt;linktext></b>Initial set-up information<b>&lt;/linktext></b>
          &lt;/topicmeta>
        &lt;/topicref>
      &lt;/relcell>
      &lt;relcell>
        &lt;topicref href="maintenance.dita"/>
      &lt;/relcell>
    &lt;/relrow>
  &lt;/reltable>
&lt;/map></codeblock></fig>
<fig id="fig_nlj_fzc_t2b"><title>Link text within a topic</title><p>In the following code example, a
topic contains a related link to local non-DITA content.</p></fig><codeblock>&lt;related-links>
  &lt;link href="SQLJ-example.html" format="html" scope="local"&gt;
    <b>&lt;linktext&gt;</b>Accessing relational data with SQLJ<b>&lt;/linktext&gt;</b>
  &lt;/link&gt;
&lt;/related-links></codeblock></example>
</refbody>
</reference>
