<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="lq" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>lq</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc> A long quotation is a quotation that contains one or more paragraphs. Authors can
    specify the title and source of the document that is being quoted.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
        <indexterm>elements<indexterm>body<indexterm><xmlelement>lq</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>formatting
          expectations<indexterm><xmlelement>lq</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>quotations<indexterm>long</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>Authors can use the  <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attributes to
        specify the source of the quotation. Use the quote element <xmlelement>q</xmlelement> for
        short quotations that are intended to be rendered inline.<ph>The
            <xmlelement>longquoteref</xmlelement> element is available for more complex references
          to the source of a quotation.</ph></p>
    </section>
    <section id="formatting-expecttions">
      <title>Formatting expectations</title>
      <p>Although rendering is left up to implementations, processors generally render
          <xmlelement>lq</xmlelement> as an indented block.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          keyref="attributes-universal"/>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-linkRelationship"/> (with a narrowed definition for
          <xmlatt>type</xmlatt>, given below), and <xref
          href="../attributes/thekeyrefattribute.dita"><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></xref>, and the
        attributes defined below.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="reftitle">
          <dt><xmlatt>reftitle</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>The title of the document or topic being quoted.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="type">
          <dt><xmlatt>type</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Indicates the location of the source of the quote. <ph
              conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/nonstandard-type"/> See
              <xref href="../attributes/thetypeattribute.dita"/> for detailed information on the
            usual supported values and processing implications. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>The following code example contains a quotation. The <xmlatt>reftitle</xmlatt> attribute
        specifies the title of the document that is quoted, and the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute
        indicates a Web site where the full text of the address can be accessed.</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;p&gt;This is the first line of the address that 
Abraham Lincoln delivered on November 19, 1863 for the dedication 
of the cemetery at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania.&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;lq reftitle="Gettysburg address"
href="https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Gettysburg_Address_(Nicolay_draft)" format="html"
scope="external"&gt;Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this continent a new
nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men
are created equal.&lt;/lq&gt;</codeblock>
      <p>When processed, the output might look like the following:</p>
      <p>This is the first line of the address that  Abraham Lincoln delivered on November 19, 1863
        for the dedication  of the cemetery at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania.</p>
      <lq reftitle="Gettysburg address"
        href="https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Gettysburg_Address_(Nicolay_draft)" format="html"
        scope="external">Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this continent
        a new nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are
        created equal.</lq>
    </example>
</refbody>
</reference>
