<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="map" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>map</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element describes the
relationships among a set of resources, such as DITA topics. Maps
consist of references to topics, maps, and other resources organized
into hierarchies, groups, and tables. Maps express these relationships
in a single common format that can be used for different outputs. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>elements<indexterm>basic map<indexterm><xmlelement>map</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>maps<indexterm>examples</indexterm><indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="section-1"><p>The containing element for a map is the <xmlelement>map</xmlelement>
element. Within the map, use the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
element to add and organize references to the topics, and the <xmlelement>topicgroup</xmlelement>
and <xmlelement>reltable</xmlelement> elements to provide non-hierarchical relationships.
You can use the <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element to set default attribute values
for all <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements in the map.</p><p>A map describes
the relationships among a set of DITA topics. The following are some
examples of relationships that can be described in a map:<ul>
<li>Hierarchical (Parent/Child). Nested topics create a hierarchical
relationship. The topic that does the nesting is the parent, and the
topics that are nested are the children.</li>
<li>Ordered. Child topics can be labeled as having an ordered relationship,
which means they are referenced in a definite sequence.</li>
<li>Family. Child topics can be labeled as having a family relationship,
which means they all refer to each other.</li>
</ul></p><p>When rendering a map, processors <ph >might</ph> make use of these
        relationships, such as to create a Table of Contents (TOC), aggregate topics into a PDF
        document, or create links between topics in output.</p><p>The <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element <ph >can</ph> optionally be used
        to provide a title for the map (the <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element is preferred over
        the <xmlatt>title</xmlatt> attribute). In some scenarios the title is purely informational,
        and is present as an aid to the author. In other scenarios it <ph 
          >might</ph> be useful or even required. For example, if a map is converted to Eclipse
        Help, the Eclipse system will require a title for the resulting table of contents. In the
          <xmlelement>bookmap</xmlelement> specialization of <xmlelement>map</xmlelement>, the
          <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element provides a title for the book represented by that
        map. In a map referenced by another map, the <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> might be
        discarded as topics from the submap are aggregated into a larger publication.</p></section>
<section conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-map/contains" id="contains" otherprops="contains"></section>
<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance"><title>Inheritance</title><p>-
map/map </p></section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title><p>In this example, there are six <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements. They are nested and
        have a hierarchical relationship. The file <filepath>bats.dita</filepath> is the parent
        topic and the other topics are its children. The hierarchy could be used to generate a PDF,
        a navigation pane in an information center, a summary of the topics, or related links
        between the parent topic and its children.</p><codeblock
xml:space="preserve">&lt;map id="mybats"&gt;
  &lt;title&gt;Bats&lt;/title&gt;
  &lt;topicref href="bats.dita" type="topic"&gt;
    &lt;topicref href="batcaring.dita" type="task"&gt;&lt;/topicref&gt;
    &lt;topicref href="batfeeding.dita" type="task"&gt;&lt;/topicref&gt;
    &lt;topicref href="batsonar.dita" type="concept"&gt;&lt;/topicref&gt;
    &lt;topicref href="batguano.dita" type="reference"&gt;&lt;/topicref&gt;
    &lt;topicref href="bathistory.dita" type="reference"&gt;&lt;/topicref&gt;
  &lt;/topicref&gt;
&lt;/map&gt;</codeblock></example>
<section id="attributes"><title>Attributes</title><sectiondiv
        conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/all-map-attributes"/></section>
</refbody>
</reference>

