<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="mapref" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>mapref</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc>A map reference is a mechanism for referencing a DITA map from a DITA map.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>convenience
          elements<indexterm><xmlelement>mapref</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>mapgroup domain<indexterm><xmlelement>mapref</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>The <xmlelement>mapref</xmlelement> element is a convenience element. It is equivalent to a
          <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element with the <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute set
        to <keyword>ditamap</keyword>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="processing-expectations">
      <title>Processing expectations</title>
      <p>The hierarchy of the referenced map is merged into the container map at the position of the
        reference, and the relationship tables of the child map are added to the parent map.</p>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="06 August 2018" audience="tc-reviewers">
        <p>Should we make normative statements about the above points?</p>
        <p>Discussed at DITA TC meeting on 02 July 2019. </p>
        <p>Consensus: Yes, these need to be normative statements, but this is not the correct
          location. We need architectural topics that address processing of map hierarchy and
          relationship tables. This content should be located in the same chapter as the material
          about subjectScheme maps; it probably should absorb content currently in Processing >
          Navigation > TOC.</p>
        <p>We should plan a review that covers both architectural and element-reference topics about
          maps.</p>
      </draft-comment>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="05 September 2020">
        <p>The terms "container map" and "parent map" here are unclear. How are they different?</p>
      </draft-comment>
    </section>
    <section id="specialization-hierarchy">
      <title>Specialization hierarchy</title>
      <p>The <xmlelement>mapref</xmlelement> element is specialized from
          <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>. It is defined in the map-group module.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <div id="mapref-attributes">
        <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <ph
            conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-universalatts"/>, <ph
            conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-linkatts"/>, <ph
            conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-commonmapatts"/>, <xref keyref="attributes-common/attr-keyref"
              ><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></xref>, and <xref keyref="attributes-common/attr-keys"
              ><xmlatt>keys</xmlatt></xref>.</p>
        <p id="attr-exception" outputclass="attr-exception">For this element, the <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute has a default
          value of <keyword>ditamap</keyword>.</p>
      </div>
    </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title>
      <p>The example shows how <xmlelement>mapref</xmlelement> elements are used to reference a
        submap.</p>
      <fig>
        <title>DITA map for all element-reference topics
          (<filepath>base-elements.ditamap</filepath>)</title>
        <p>The <filepath>base-elements.ditamap</filepath> document references the
            <filepath>map-group-elements.ditamap)</filepath>:</p>
        <codeblock>&lt;map>
 &lt;title>Base elements&lt;/title>
 ...
 &lt;topicref href="containers/domain-elements.dita" >
  ...
  <b>&lt;mapref href="map-group-elements.ditamap"/></b>
  ...
 &lt;/topicref>
 ...
&lt;/map></codeblock>
      </fig>
      <fig>
        <title>DITA map for map-group elements
          (<filepath>map-group-elements.ditamap)</filepath></title>
        <p>The <filepath>map-group-elements.ditamap</filepath> document contains references to the
          element-reference topics for the map group domain. It is constructed as a map in order to
          enable easy editing of the child topics. </p>
        <codeblock>&lt;map>
 &lt;title>Map group elements&lt;/title>
 &lt;topicref keyref="mapgroup-d" >
  &lt;topicref keyref="anchorref" />
  &lt;topicref keyref="keydef" />
  &lt;topicref keyref="mapref" />
  &lt;topicref keyref="topicgroup" />
  &lt;topicref keyref="topichead" />
 &lt;/topicref>
&lt;/map></codeblock>
      </fig><fig><title>Result after processing <filepath>base-elements.ditamap</filepath></title>
        <p>After processing, the <filepath>base-elements.ditamap</filepath> contains the topic
          references that originally were located in the submap:</p>
<codeblock>&lt;map>
 &lt;title>Base elements&lt;/title>
 ...
 &lt;topicref href="containers/domain-elements.dita" >
  ...
  <b>&lt;topicref keyref="mapgroup-d" >
    &lt;topicref keyref="anchorref" />
    &lt;topicref keyref="keydef" />
    &lt;topicref keyref="mapref" />
    &lt;topicref keyref="topicgroup" />
    &lt;topicref keyref="topichead" />
  &lt;/topicref></b>
  ...
 &lt;/topicref>
 ...
&lt;/map></codeblock>
</fig></example>
</refbody>
</reference>
