<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="media-track">
  <title><xmlelement>media-track</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc>The <xmlelement>media-track</xmlelement> element specifies the location of a resource
    containing a supplemental timed text track or other time-based data for the media referenced by
    the enclosing <xmlelement>video</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>audio</xmlelement> element. It is
    analogous to the <xmlelement>track</xmlelement> element used in HTML5 multimedia
    elements.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>media-track</indexterm>
        <indexterm>multimedia domain<indexterm>media-track </indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>Track resources should be in <xref href="https://www.w3.org/TR/webvtt1/" format="html"
          scope="external">Web Video Text Track Format (WebVTT)</xref>. The resource location is
        specified using <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute. The kind of
        track is specified by the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute. The language of the track is
        specified using the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="formatting-expectations">
      <title>Formatting expectations</title>
      <p>The display of the track information is determined by the user agent being used to present
        the media.</p>
    </section>
    <!--<section id="processing-expectations"><title>Processing expectations</title></section>-->
    <section id="specialization-hierarchy">
      <title>Specialization hierarchy</title>
      <p>+ topic/param media-d/media-source </p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref keyref="attributes-universal"
        /> and the attributes defined below.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>value</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the URL of the track resource.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>A key reference to the track resource. If both <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> and
              <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> are specified, the resource referenced by
              <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> takes precedence unless the key cannot be resolved, in which
            case the resource specified by <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> is used as a fallback.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>type</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the usage for the referenced track data. This attribute is analogous to the
              <xmlatt>kind</xmlatt> attribute on the HTML5 <xmlelement>track</xmlelement> element as
            described by the <xref
              href="https://www.w3.org/TR/2011/WD-html5-author-20110809/the-track-element.html#attr-track-kind"
              format="html" scope="external"><cite>W3C HTML5 specification</cite></xref>. The values
            recognized for this attribute are derived from the HTML5 standard, from which the below
            descriptions are copied:<dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>subtitles</dt>
                <dd>Transcription or translation of the dialogue, suitable for when the sound is
                  available but not understood (e.g. because the user does not understand the
                  language of the media resource's soundtrack). Displayed over the video.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>captions</dt>
                <dd>Transcription or translation of the dialogue, sound effects, relevant musical
                  cues, and other relevant audio information, suitable for when the soundtrack is
                  unavailable (e.g. because it is muted or because the user is deaf). Displayed over
                  the video; labeled as appropriate for the hard-of-hearing.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>descriptions</dt>
                <dd>Textual descriptions of the video component of the media resource, intended for
                  audio synthesis when the visual component is unavailable (e.g. because the user is
                  interacting with the application without a screen while driving, or because the
                  user is blind). Synthesized as separate audio track.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>chapters</dt>
                <dd>Chapter titles, intended to be used for navigating the media resource. Displayed
                  as an interactive list in the user agent's interface.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>metadata</dt>
                <dd>Tracks intended for use from script. Not displayed by the user agent.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>-dita-use-conref-target</dt>
                <dd>See <xref>Using the -dita-use-conref-target value</xref> for more information.
                </dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>name</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>This attribute is required due to this element's derivation from the
              <xmlelement>param</xmlelement> element. The value is fixed to "track" by the grammar
            definition.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>valuetype</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>This attribute is present due to this element's derivation from the
              <xmlelement>param</xmlelement> element. The value is fixed to "ref" by the grammar
            definition.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>See <xref keyref="video"><xmlelement>video</xmlelement></xref> and <xref keyref="audio"
            ><xmlelement>audio</xmlelement></xref> for examples of this element.</p>
    </example>
  </refbody>
</reference>
