<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="navref" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>navref</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc><ph conkeyref="reuse-general/navtitle_shortdesc"/></shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>elements<indexterm>basic
              map<indexterm><xmlelement>navref</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>For example, if a map is converted to the Eclipse help system format, the DITA element
          <codeph>&lt;navref mapref="other.ditamap"/&gt;</codeph>
        <ph>is</ph> converted to the Eclipse element <codeph>&lt;link toc="other.xml"/&gt;</codeph>.
        When Eclipse loads the referencing map, it will replace this link element with the contents
        of the file <filepath>other.xml</filepath>, provided that the file
          <filepath>other.xml</filepath> is available.</p>
      <p>Note that not all output formats support such linking. In order to include another map
        directly without depending on the output format, use a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
        element with the <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute set to "ditamap". The effect is similar
        to using a <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute. For example, the following markup represents a
        literal inclusion of the map <filepath>other.ditamap</filepath>:</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;topicref href="other.ditamap" format="ditamap"/&gt;</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p id="universal-outputclass">The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          keyref="attributes-universal"/> and the attribute
        defined below.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>mapref</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the URI of the map file or non-DITA resource to be referenced. It
              <ph>might</ph> reference a DITA map or a resource that is appropriate for your output
            format (such as XML TOC file for Eclipse output).
            <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt>
            <ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/deprecated-attr"/></dt>
          <dd>The <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute was unintentionally defined for
              <xmlelement>navref</xmlelement> in the original DITA grammar files. It is retained for
            backwards compatibility. The attribute will be removed in a future release, and
            processors are not expected to support it.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title><p>In this example, the map titled "MyComponent tasks" references the maps
<filepath>othermap2.ditamap</filepath> and <filepath>othermap3.ditamap</filepath>.</p><codeblock>&lt;map title="MyComponent tasks"&gt;
 &lt;navref mapref="../com.ibm.xml.doc/othermap1.ditamap"/&gt;
 &lt;navref mapref="../com.ibm.xml.doc/othermap2.ditamap"/&gt;
&lt;/map&gt;</codeblock></example>
</refbody>
</reference>

