<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="no-topic-nesting" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>no-topic-nesting</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>no-topic-nesting</xmlelement> element is a placeholder in the DITA
        architecture.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>specialization
                    elements<indexterm><xmlelement>no-topic-nesting</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
            <title>Usage information</title>
            <p>The <xmlelement>no-topic-nesting</xmlelement> element is not intended for use in DITA
                source files.</p>
            <p>In the DTD document-type shell that is distributed by OASIS for the base topic, the
                    <parameterentity>topic-info-types</parameterentity> entity is set to
                    <codeph>topic</codeph>. This means that <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> elements
                can nest other <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> elements.</p>
            <p>The <xmlelement>no-topic-nesting</xmlelement> element is designed for use only when
                configuring a document-type shell. It enables the DITA practitioner to disallow
                topic nesting for the topic type.
                <!--When a specialized topic is set up to allow topic nesting, the <xmlelement>no-topic-nesting</xmlelement> element can be used in a shell as a way to disallow that nesting.--></p>
        </section>
    <!--<section id="processing-expectations"><title>Processing expectations</title><p>The <xmlelement>no-topic-nesting</xmlelement> element has no associated output processing.</p></section>-->
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attribute is available on this element: <xref
                    keyref="attributes-universal/class"><xmlatt>class</xmlatt></xref>.</p>
    </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples">
            <title>Example</title>
            <!--<p><i>This element is not intended to be used in source files.</i></p>-->
            <draft-comment author="lsteinbacher">"The following code sample" was used two times
                below. This seems a little awkward. I moved the second para below  up to usage
                information to describe why no-topic-nesting is needed in the first
                place.</draft-comment>
            <p> The following code sample shows how a DITA practitioner redefines the
                    <parameterentity>topic-info-types</parameterentity> entity to
                    <keyword>no-topic-nesting</keyword>:<codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % topic-info-types
              "<b>no-topic-nesting</b>"
></codeblock></p>
            <p>Now, topics that use that document-type shell can no longer nest other topics. DTD
                grammar rules require that some element be specified in this entity, so
                    <xmlelement>no-topic-nesting</xmlelement> is used as a placeholder.</p>
        </example>
</refbody>
</reference>
