<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="note" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>note</xmlelement></title>
    <shortdesc>A note contains information that expands on or calls attention to a particular
        point.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>elements<indexterm>body<indexterm><xmlelement>note</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>formatting
                        expectations<indexterm><xmlelement>note</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
        <section id="usage-information">
            <title>Usage information</title>
            <p>Variant types of <xmlelement>note</xmlelement> (tip, caution, danger, restriction,
                etc.) can be indicated through values selected on the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt>
                attribute.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="formatting-expectations">
            <title>Formatting expectations</title>
<draft-comment author="robander">Should we say that the note element typically results in some
prefixed word like "Note" or "Caution"? That seems to be the intent of the current "may be formatted
as xyz" in our example.</draft-comment>
            <p>A note is typically formatted in a way that stands out from the surrounding
content.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="attributes">
            <title>Attributes</title>
            <sectiondiv conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/note-attributes"
            />
        </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples">
<title>Example</title>
<p>The following code sample demonstrates the use of a <xmlelement>note</xmlelement> with
<xmlatt>type</xmlatt> set to "tip".</p>
<codeblock xml:space="preserve">&lt;note type="tip"&gt;Thinking of a seashore, green meadow, or cool
mountain overlook can help you to relax and be more
patient.&lt;/note&gt;</codeblock>
<draft-comment author="robander">Robert does not really like explicitly addressing formatting in the
example, as below, with "It could be formatted as <b>xyz</b>", because ... sure, it could, but it
could be formatted lots of other ways too?</draft-comment>
<p>The sample markup could produce output such as the following:</p>
<p><b>Tip:</b> Thinking of a seashore, green meadow, or cool mountain overlook can help you to relax
and be more patient.</p>
</example>
</refbody>
</reference>
