<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="object" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>object</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The DITA <xmlelement>object</xmlelement> element corresponds to the
            HTML <xmlelement>object</xmlelement> element, and attribute semantics derive from their
        HTML definitions. For example, the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute differs from the
            <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute on many other DITA elements.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>objects<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>elements<indexterm>body<indexterm><xmlelement>object</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="section-1"><p>The <xmlelement>object</xmlelement> element enables authors to include animated images, applets,
                plug-ins, ActiveX controls, video clips, and other multimedia objects in a
                topic.</p></section>
<section conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-object/contains" id="contains" otherprops="contains"></section>
<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance"><title>Inheritance</title><p>-
topic/object </p></section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples">
            <title>Example</title>
            <p>Output processors might need to modify data in order to enable compatible function
                across various browsers, so these examples are only representative:</p>
            <codeblock>&lt;p&gt;Cutting the keys from the system unit:&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;object classid="clsid:D27CDB6E-AE6D-11cf-96B8-444553540000"
 codebase="http://download.macromedia.com/pub/shockwave/cabs/
flash/swflash.cab#version=6,0,0,0"
 data="cutkey370.swf"
 type="application/x-shockwave-flash"
 height="280"
 width="370"
 id="cutkey370"&gt;
 &lt;desc&gt;A description of the task&lt;/desc&gt;
 &lt;param name="movie" value="cutkey370.swf"/&gt;
 &lt;param name="quality" value="high"/&gt;
 &lt;param name="bgcolor" value="#FFFFFF"/&gt;
&lt;/object&gt;
</codeblock>
            <codeblock>&lt;p&gt;What's EIM?&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;object classid="clsid:D27CDB6E-AE6D-11cf-96B8-444553540000"
 codebase="http://download.macromedia.com/pub/shockwave/cabs/
flash/swflash.cab#version=6,0,0,0"
 data="eim.swf"
 height="400"
 width="500"
 id="eim"&gt;
 &lt;desc&gt;Some great, glorious info&lt;/desc&gt;
 &lt;param name="movie" value="eim.swf"/&gt;
 &lt;param name="quality" value="high"/&gt;
 &lt;param name="bgcolor" value="#FFFFFF"/&gt;
 &lt;param name="pluginspace"
 value="http://www.macromedia.com/go/getflashplayer"/&gt;
&lt;/object&gt;</codeblock>
            <fig id="fig_o2l_bfb_4k" >
                <title>Object with reference to video using key reference on the
                        <xmlelement>param</xmlelement> elements</title>
                <codeblock>&lt;object
  id="E5123_026.mp4"
  width="300"
  height="300">
  &lt;param name="poster"
     <b>keyref="E5123_026_poster"</b>
  />
  &lt;param name="source"
     <b>keyref="E5123_026_video"</b>
  />
&lt;/object></codeblock>
                <p>Where the keys could
                    be:<codeblock>&lt;map>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
  &lt;keydef keys="E5123_026_poster"
      href="../images/E5123_026_poster.png"
      type="video/mp4"
  />
  &lt;keydef keys="E5123_026_video"
      href="../media/E5123_026_poster.mp4"
      type="video/mp4"
  />
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/map></codeblock></p>
            </fig>
            <fig >
                <title>Object with indirect reference to a flash file and fallback
                        <xmlatt>data</xmlatt> value</title>
                <codeblock>&lt;object 
 <b>classidkeyref="video_classid"</b>
 <b>codebasekeyref="video_codebase"</b>
 <b>datakeyref="cutkey370"</b>
 height="280"
 width="370"
 id="cutkey370">
 &lt;desc>A description of the task&lt;/desc>
 &lt;param name="movie" <b>keyref="cutkey370"</b>/>
 &lt;param name="quality" value="high"/>
 &lt;param name="bgcolor" value="#FFFFFF"/>
&lt;/object></codeblock>
                <p>Where the key could
                    be:<codeblock>&lt;map>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
  &lt;!-- NOTE: Using @scope="external" because
       the class ID is a URI that is not intended to
       be directly resolved.
    -->
  &lt;keydef keys="video_classid"
    href="clsid:D27CDB6E-AE6D-11cf-96B8-444553540000"
    scope="external"
  />
  &lt;!-- NOTE: Using @scope="external" to avoid systems trying to
             download this file when they don't need to.
    -->
  &lt;keydef keys="video_codebase"
    href="http://download.macromedia.com/pub/shockwave/cabs/
flash/swflash.cab#version=6,0,0,0"
    format="shockwave"
    scope="external"
  />
  &lt;!-- Using @scope="external" here because the referenced URL
       is not intended to be resolved in isolation but relative
       to the codebase URI.
    -->
  &lt;keydef keys="cutkey370"
      href="cutkey370.swf"
      type="application/x-shockwave-flash"
      scope="external"
  />
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/map></codeblock></p>
            </fig>
        </example>
<section id="attributes"><title>Attributes</title>
            <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
                    href="../attributes/universalAttributes.dita"/>, <xref
                    href="../attributes/commonAttributes.dita#common-atts/outputclass"/>, and the
                attributes defined below.</p>
   <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><xmlatt>archive</xmlatt></dt>
                    <dd>Specifies a space-separated list of URIs indicating resources needed by the
                        object. These resources <ph >might</ph> include those
                        URIs specified by the <xmlatt>classid</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>data</xmlatt>
                        attributes. Preloading these resources usually results in faster loadtimes
                        for objects. The URIs in the list should be relative to the URI specified in
                        the <xmlatt>codebase</xmlatt> attribute.
                        <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
                </dlentry>
    <dlentry >
     <dt><xmlatt>archivekeyrefs</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd>Key references to one or more archives, as for <xmlatt>archive</xmlatt>. The value is a
                        space-separated list of key names. Each resolvable key reference is treated
                        as a URI as though it had been specified on the <xmlatt>archive</xmlatt>
                        attribute. When specified, and at least one key name is resolvable, the
                        key-provided archive list is used. If <xmlatt>archive</xmlatt> is specified,
                        it is used as a fallback when no key names can be resolved to a URI.
                        <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
    </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><xmlatt>classid</xmlatt></dt>
                    <dd>Contains a URI that specifies the location of an object&apos;s
                        implementation. It can be used together with the <xmlatt>data</xmlatt>
                        attribute which is specified relative to the value of the
                            <xmlatt>codebase</xmlatt> attribute.
                        <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
                </dlentry>
    <dlentry >
     <dt><xmlatt>classidkeyref</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd>Key reference to the URI that specifies the location of an object's implementation, as for
                            <xmlatt>classid</xmlatt>. When specified, and the key is resolvable, the
                        key-provided class ID URI is used. If <xmlatt>classid</xmlatt> is specified,
                        it is used as a fallback when the key cannot be resolved to a URI.
                        <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
    </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><xmlatt>codebase</xmlatt></dt>
                    <dd>Specifies the base URI used for resolving the relative URI values given for
                            <xmlatt>classid</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>data</xmlatt>, and
                            <xmlatt>archive</xmlatt> attributes. If <xmlatt>codebase</xmlatt> is not
                        set, the default is the base URI of the current element.
                        <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
                </dlentry>
    <dlentry >
     <dt><xmlatt>codebasekeyref</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd>Key reference to the base URI used for resolving other attributes, as for
                            <xmlatt>codebase</xmlatt>. When specified, and the key is resolvable,
                        the key-provided code base URI is used. If <xmlatt>codebase</xmlatt> is
                        specified, it is used as a fallback if the key cannot be resolved to a URI.
                        If no URI results from processing <xmlatt>codebasekeyref</xmlatt> and
                            <xmlatt>codebase</xmlatt> is not specified, the default is the base URL
                        of the current element.
                        <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
    </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><xmlatt>data</xmlatt></dt>
                    <dd>Contains a reference to the location of an object&apos;s data. If this
                        attribute is a relative URL, it is specified relative to the value of the
                            <xmlatt>codebase</xmlatt> attribute. If this attribute is set, the
                            <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute should also be set.
                        <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
                </dlentry>
    <dlentry >
     <dt><xmlatt>datakeyref</xmlatt></dt>
     <dd>Key reference to the location of an object's data, as for <xmlatt>data</xmlatt>. When
                        specified and the key is resolvable, the key-provided URI is used. A key
                        that has no associated resource, only link text, is considered to be
                        unresolved for the purpose of the <xmlatt>datakeyref</xmlatt> attribute. If
                            <xmlatt>data</xmlatt> is specified, it is used as a fallback when the
                        key cannot be resolved to a resource.
                        <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
    </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><xmlatt>declare</xmlatt></dt>
                    <dd>When this attribute is set to "declare", the current object definition is a
                        declaration only. The object must be instantiated by a later nested object
                        definition referring to this declaration. The only allowable value is
                        "declare".</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><xmlatt>type</xmlatt></dt>
                    <dd>Indicates the content type (MIME type) for the data specified by the
                            <xmlatt>data</xmlatt>
                        <ph >or <xmlatt>datakeyref</xmlatt>
                        </ph> attribute. This attribute should be set when the <xmlatt>data</xmlatt>
                        attribute is set to avoid loading unsupported content types. Note that this
                        differs from the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute on many other DITA elements
                        (it specifies a MIME type rather than a content type). <ph
                            >If <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> is not specified,
                            the effective type value for the key named by the
                                <xmlatt>datakeyref</xmlatt> attribute is used as the this
                            attribute's value.</ph></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><xmlatt>standby</xmlatt></dt>
                    <dd>Contains a message to be displayed while an object is loading.
                        <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><xmlatt>height</xmlatt></dt>
                    <dd>Indicates the vertical dimension for the resulting object display. If
                        necessary, the object is scaled to the specified size. <ph
                            conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/height-width-units"
                        /> If a height value is specified and no width value is specified, the width
                        will be scaled by the same factor as the height. <ph
                            conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/height-width-warning"/>
                        <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-NMTOKEN"/>--></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><xmlatt>width</xmlatt></dt>
                    <dd>Indicates the horizontal dimension for the resulting object display. If
                        necessary, the object is scaled to the specified size. <ph
                            conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/height-width-units"
                        /> If a width value is specified and no height value is specified, the
                        height will be scaled by the same factor as the width. <ph
                            conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/height-width-warning"/>
                        <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-NMTOKEN"/>--></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><xmlatt>usemap</xmlatt></dt>
                    <dd>Indicates that a client-side image map is to be used. An image map specifies
                        active geometric regions of an included object and assigns a link to each
                        region. When a link is selected, a document <ph 
                            >might</ph> be retrieved or a program <ph 
                            >might</ph> run on the server.
                        <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><xmlatt>name</xmlatt></dt>
                    <dd>Defines a unique name for the object.
                        <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
                </dlentry>
   </dl>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><xmlatt>tabindex</xmlatt></dt>
                    <dd>Position the object in tabbing order.
                        <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-NMTOKEN"/>--></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><xmlatt>longdescref</xmlatt>
                        <ph
                            conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/deprecated-attr"
                        />
                    </dt>
                    <dd>A reference to a textual description of the graphic or object. This
                        attribute supports creating accessible content. See <xref
                            href="../attributes/thehrefattribute.dita"/> for detailed information on
                        supported values and processing implications. <ph>For examples of how this
                            attribute is used in output, see this topic on <xref format="html"
                                href="http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG10-HTML-TECHS/#long-descriptions"
                                scope="external">long descriptions</xref>.</ph> NOTE: This attribute
                        is deprecated in favor of the <xref href="longdescref.dita"/> subelement to
                        this element.
                        <!--<ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>--></dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
