<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="param" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title><xmlelement>param</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc>The <xmlelement>param</xmlelement> (parameter) element
    specifies a set of values that might be required by an
      <xmlelement>object</xmlelement> at runtime.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>elements<indexterm>body<indexterm><xmlelement>param</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>objects<indexterm>parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>Any number of <xmlelement>param</xmlelement> elements might appear
        in the content of an <xmlelement>object</xmlelement> in any order,
        but must be placed at the start of the content of the enclosing
        object. This element is comparable to the HMTL
          <xmlelement>param</xmlelement> element, and the <ph
          rev="review-c">attribute semantics</ph> derive from their HTML
        definitions. For example, the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute
        differs from the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute on many other DITA
        elements.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="processing-expectations">
      <title>Processing expectations</title>
      <p>The <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>valuetype</xmlatt>
        attributes on <xmlelement>param</xmlelement> have the following <ph
          rev="review-c">expectations</ph>:<ul id="ul_evg_2gj_nrb">
          <li>If <xmlatt>valuetype</xmlatt> is specified but is not set to
            "ref", the <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute is ignored.</li>
          <li>When <xmlatt>valuetype</xmlatt> is not specified and
              <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> is specified, it implies a setting of
              <codeph>valuetype="ref"</codeph>.</li>
          <li>When <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> is specified and the effective
            value of <xmlatt>valuetype</xmlatt> is
              <keyword>ref</keyword>:<ol id="ol_tvg_2c2_z1b">
              <li>When the key specified by <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> is
                resolvable and has an associated URI, that URI is used as
                the value of this element (overriding
                  <xmlatt>value</xmlatt>, if that is specified).</li>
              <li>When the key specified by <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> is
                resolvable and has no associated resource (only link text),
                the <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute is considered to be
                unresolvable for this element. If <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> is
                specified, it is used as fallback.</li>
              <li>When the key specified by <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> is not
                resolvable, the value of the <xmlatt>value</xmlatt>
                attribute is used as a fallback target for the
                  <xmlelement>param</xmlelement> element.</li>
            </ol></li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>In addition, the following expectations apply to the
          <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute:<ol id="ol_svg_2c2_z1b">
          <li>When <xmlatt>valuetype</xmlatt> is set to "ref", the
              <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute directly specifies the
            content type of the resource designated by
              <xmlatt>value</xmlatt>.</li>
          <li>Otherwise, if <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> is specified and
              <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> is specified and resolvable, this
            attribute specifies the content type of the resource designated
            by <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt>.</li>
          <li>Otherwise, if <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> is not specified and
              <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> is specified and is resolvable, the
            effective type value specified for the key that is named by the
              <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute is used as the value of the
              <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <ph
          conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-universalatts"/> and the
        attributes defined below.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="attr-keyref"><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies a key reference to the thing the parameter
            references.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="attr-name"><xmlatt>name</xmlatt>
            <ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/required-attr"/></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the name of the parameter.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="attr-type"><xmlatt>type</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies for a user agent the type of values that will be
            found at the URI designated by <xmlatt>value</xmlatt>. <ph
              conkeyref="reuse-attributes/nonstandard-type"/></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="attr-value"><xmlatt>value</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the value of a run-time parameter that is described
            by the <xmlatt>name</xmlatt> attribute.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="attr-valuetype"><xmlatt>valuetype</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the type of the <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> attribute.
            Allowed values are: <dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>data </dt>
                <dd>A value of <keyword>data</keyword> means that the value
                  will be evaluated and passed to the object&apos;s
                  implementation as a string. </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>ref </dt>
                <dd>A value of <keyword>ref</keyword> indicates that the
                  value of the <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> attribute is a URL
                  that designates a resource where run-time values are
                  stored. This allows support tools to identify URLs that
                  are given as parameters.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>object</dt>
                <dd>A value of <keyword>object</keyword> indicates that the
                  value of the <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> attribute is an
                  identifier that refers to an object declaration in the
                  document. The identifier must be the value of the
                    <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute set for the declared
                    <xmlelement>object</xmlelement> element. </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditauseconref">
                <dt/>
                <dd/>
              </dlentry>
            </dl></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <example id="example" otherprops="examples"
        ><title>Example</title><p>See <xref keyref="elements-object/example"
            ><xmlelement>object</xmlelement></xref>.</p></example>
  </refbody>
</reference>
