<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="relatedSubjects" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>relatedSubjects</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>relatedSubjects</xmlelement> element specifies
    that associative relationships exist between all contained subjects.
    The utility of this relationship is primarily for content delivery
    platforms with advanced capabilities.<draft-comment
      author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="27 November 2021">
      <p>How is this element different from
          <xmlelement>hasRelated</xmlelement>?</p>
    </draft-comment></shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
        <indexterm>subjectScheme<indexterm>
                elements<indexterm><xmlelement>relatedSubjects</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>The information architect can identify the relationship by specifying a
          <xmlatt>keys</xmlatt> attribute, label the relationship by specifying a
          <xmlelement>titlealt</xmlelement> with a <xmlatt>title-role</xmlatt> of
          <codeph>navigation</codeph> or <codeph>linking</codeph> such as
          <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>linktitle</xmlelement>, and provide a
        consensus definition of the associative relationship by referencing a topic. If the
        relationship has an identifying key, the content provider can use the
          <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute to specify the same relationship for different
        subjects.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="processing-expectations">
      <title>Processing expectations</title>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="27 May 2019">
        <p>The content of this section needs to be rewritten and moved
          elsewhere.</p>
      </draft-comment>
      <draft-comment author="Robert">Wonder if it should instead just be removed? As someone who
        works on a processor, this is not really telling me anything that I can use. Same for the
        second sentence of the short description above, which mirrors this: "The utility of this
        relationship is primarily for content delivery platforms with advanced
        capabilities."</draft-comment>
      <p>For filtering and flagging, processors need only inspect the subordinate hierarchies under
        category subjects that are bound to attributes. Filtering and flagging processors do not
        have to understand specific types of relationships. Explicit relationships are useful
        primarily for information viewers with advanced capabilities.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="specialization-hierachy">
      <title>Specialization hierarchy</title>
      <p>The <xmlelement>relatedSubjects</xmlelement> element is
        specialized from <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>. It is defined
        in the subject scheme module.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <ph
          conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-universalatts"/>, <ph
          conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-linkatts"/>, <xref keyref="attributes-common/attr-keys"
            ><xmlatt>keys</xmlatt></xref>, <xref keyref="attributes-common/attr-keyref"
          ><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></xref>, <xref keyref="attributes-common/attr-processing-role"
            ><xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt></xref>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-common/attr-collection-type"><xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt></xref>,
        and <xref keyref="attributes-common/attr-linking"><xmlatt>linking</xmlatt></xref>.</p>
      <p id="attr-exception" outputclass="attr-exception">For this element, the <xmlatt>linking</xmlatt> attribute has a default
        value of <keyword>normal</keyword>.</p>
    </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="27 May 2019" audience="spec-editors">
        <p>Need to rework example to include instances of what it mentioned in the "Usage
          information" section.</p>
      </draft-comment><p>The following code sample specifies that the Linux, the Apache Web
        Server, and the MySQL Database subjects are
        related:<codeblock>&lt;subjectScheme>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
  &lt;relatedSubjects>
    &lt;subjectdef keys="linux">
    &lt;subjectdef keys="apache-web-server"/>
    &lt;subjectdef keys="my-sql"/>
  &lt;/relatedSubjects>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/subjectScheme></codeblock></p></example>
</refbody>
</reference>
