<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="relcolspec" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>A relationship table column specification provides default attribute values for
    references in a single column of a relationship table.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>elements<indexterm>basic
              map<indexterm><xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>examples<indexterm>relationship tables</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>maps<indexterm>examples<indexterm>relationship
          tables</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>processing expectations<indexterm>labels for related
          links</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>relationship tables<indexterm>column
            definitions</indexterm><indexterm>examples</indexterm><indexterm>labels for related
            links</indexterm><indexterm>processing expectations</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>You can use the <xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement> element to set default values for the
        attributes of the topics that are referenced in the column. For example, when you set the
          <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute to "concept," all <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
        elements in the column that do not have a <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute specified are
        treated as concepts. </p>
      <p>Adding a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element to the
          <xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement> element defines a relationship between the topic (or
        topics) contained within the <xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement> element and the topics that
        are referenced in the column of the relationship table. Note that this does not define a
        relationship between two cells in the same column; the only new relationship is between
          <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> targets in a <xmlelement>relcell</xmlelement> and
          <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> targets in that column's
          <xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="rendering-expectations">
      <title>Rendering expectations</title>
      <p>When a <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element exists inside of the
          <xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement> element, the content of the
          <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element is intended to be used as the label for the related
        links that are defined and generated by the column. If the <xmlelement>title</xmlelement>
        element is not present, the labels for the related links are generated in the following
          ways:<ul id="ul_u1n_wnw_1bb">
          <li>If the <xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement> element contains a
              <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element that references a non-DITA resource, the
            value of the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element's navigation title is used for
            the label.</li>
          <li>If the <xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement> element contains a
              <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element that references a DITA resource and the
              <xmlatt>locktitle</xmlatt> attribute is set to "yes," the value of the
              <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element's navigation title is used for the
            label.</li>
          <li>If the <xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement> element contains a
              <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element that references a DITA resource and the
              <xmlatt>locktitle</xmlatt> attribute is missing or set to "no," the label is derived
            from the <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element
            specified within the topic.</li>
          <li>If no title is specified and no <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> is present in the
              <xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement>, a rendering tool might choose to generate a title
            for the links generated from that column.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="processing-expectations">
      <title>Processing expectations</title>
      <p>When values are specified for attributes of <xmlelement>relcell</xmlelement> or
          <xmlelement>relrow</xmlelement> elements, those values are inherited before those defined
        for <xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement> attributes. Values specified for attributes of
          <xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement> elements are inherited before those defined for the
          <xmlelement>reltable</xmlelement> element.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          keyref="attributes-universal"/> and <xref
          keyref="attributes-commonMap"/> (without <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> or
          <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt>). This element also
        uses <xmlatt>type</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt>, and <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> from <xref
          keyref="attributes-linkRelationship"/>.</p>
    </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title>
      <p>The following section shows how a simple relationship table uses column specifications to
        validate topic types.</p>
      <fig id="fig_uhz_crw_3nb">
        <title>Enforcing concept, type, and reference  types with
            <xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement></title>
        <p>The following code sample shows how a relationship table groups relationships between
          concepts, tasks, and references. Three cells are defined within one row. The first cell
          contains one concept topic: <filepath>puffins.dita</filepath>. The second cell contains
          two task topics: <filepath>puffinFeeding.dita</filepath> and
            <filepath>puffinCleaning.dita</filepath>. The third cell contains a reference topic:
            <filepath>puffinHistory.dita</filepath>. Setting the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> on each
          column allows (but does not require) processors to validate that the topics in each column
          are of the expected type.</p>
        <codeblock>&lt;map>
 &lt;reltable>
  &lt;relheader>
   <b>&lt;relcolspec type="concept"/></b>
   <b>&lt;relcolspec type="task"/></b>
   <b>&lt;relcolspec type="reference"/></b>
  &lt;/relheader>
  &lt;relrow>
   &lt;relcell>&lt;topicref href="puffins.dita"/>&lt;/relcell>
   &lt;relcell>
     &lt;topicref href="puffinFeeding.dita"/>
     &lt;topicref href="puffinCleaning.dita"/>
   &lt;/relcell>
   &lt;relcell>
     &lt;topicref href="puffinHistory.dita"/>
   &lt;/relcell>
  &lt;/relrow>
 &lt;/reltable>
&lt;/map></codeblock>
      </fig>
      <p>The following section shows how relationship table columns can reference topics and specify
        titles for use when generating groups of links.</p>
      <fig id="fig_y15_jrw_3nb">
        <title>Relationship table column headers with topics and titles</title>
        <p>The following code sample shows how topics and titles can be specified in a relationship
          table column header. </p>
        <codeblock>&lt;reltable>
  &lt;relheader>
    <b>&lt;relcolspec type="task"></b>
      &lt;topicref navtitle="Troubleshooting" href="tbs.dita" locktitle="yes"/>
    <b>&lt;/relcolspec></b>
    <b>&lt;relcolspec type="reference"></b>
      &lt;topicref navtitle="Messages" href="msg.dita" locktitle="yes"/>
    <b>&lt;/relcolspec></b>
  &lt;/relheader>
  &lt;relrow>
    &lt;relcell>
      &lt;topicref navtitle="Debugging login errors" href="debug_login.dita"/>
    &lt;/relcell>
    &lt;relcell>
      &lt;topicref navtitle="Login not found" href="login_error_1.dita"/>
    &lt;/relcell>
  &lt;/relrow>
  &lt;relrow>
    &lt;relcell>
      &lt;topicref navtitle="Checking access controls" href="checking_access.dita"/>
    &lt;/relcell>
    &lt;relcell>
      &lt;topicref navtitle="Login not allowed" href="login_error_2.dita"/>
    &lt;/relcell>
  &lt;/relrow>
&lt;/reltable></codeblock>
        <p>In addition to the relationships defined by the rows in the relationship table, the
          following relationships are now defined by the columns in the relationship table:<ul
            id="ul_whh_srw_3nb">
            <li><filepath>tbs.dita</filepath> &lt;–> <filepath>debug_login.dita</filepath></li>
            <li><filepath>tbs.dita</filepath> &lt;–> <filepath>checking_access.dit</filepath>a</li>
            <li><filepath>msg.dita</filepath> &lt;–> <filepath>login_error_1.dita</filepath></li>
            <li><filepath>msg.dita</filepath> &lt;–> <filepath>login_error_2.dita</filepath></li>
          </ul></p>
        <p>Ignoring the headers for a moment, the <xmlelement>reltable</xmlelement> here would
          ordinarily define a two-way relationship between <filepath>debug_login.dita</filepath> and
            <filepath>login_error1.dita</filepath>. This will typically be expressed as a link from
          each to the other. An application might render the link with a language-appropriate
          heading such as "Related reference", indicating that the target of the link is a reference
          topic.</p>
        <p>The headers change this by specifying a new title. In the second column, the
            <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> specifies a title of "Messages", which should now be
          used together with the link to anything in that column. So, a generated link from
            <filepath>debug_login.dita</filepath> to <filepath>login_error1.dita</filepath> should
          be rendered together with the title of "Messages". How this is rendered together with the
          link is up to the application.</p>
      </fig></example>
</refbody>
</reference>

