<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="searchtitle" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>searchtitle</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>searchtitle</xmlelement> element is used to specify a title that <ph
      rev="public-review-1">is</ph> displayed by search tools that locate the topic. This is most
    useful when the topic has a title that makes sense in the context of a single information set,
    but <ph rev="public-review-1">might</ph> be too general in a list of search results; for
    example, a topic title of "Markup example" <ph rev="public-review-1">might</ph> make sense as
    part of a guide to DITA, but when found among thousands of unrelated topics, a search title of
    "DITA markup example" is more useful.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>processing
            expectations<indexterm><xmlelement>searchtitle</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="section-1">When a topic is rendered as XHTML, the contents of the
        <xmlelement>searchtitle</xmlelement> will typically appear in the XHTML&apos;s title
      element, which used in the result summary for many search engines. This element <ph
        rev="public-review-1">might</ph> not be supported for output formats that do not support
      distinct search titles for topics.</section>
<section conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-searchtitle/contains" id="contains" otherprops="contains"></section>
<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance"><title>Inheritance</title><p>"-
topic/searchtitle " when used in topics, and "- map/searchtitle "
when used in maps.</p></section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title><p>In the
following example, the general title "Programming Example" is likely
very useful in a set of information about XSLT basics; however, the
same title is not helpful among a set of search results from the entire
internet. In that case, "Example of basic programming in XSLT" will
be much more helpful.</p><codeblock>&lt;task id="progexample"&gt;
 &lt;title&gt;Programming Example&lt;/title&gt;
  &lt;titlealts&gt;&lt;searchtitle&gt;Example of basic
             programming in XSLT&lt;/searchtitle&gt;&lt;/titlealts&gt;
 &lt;taskbody&gt; . . . &lt;/taskbody&gt;
&lt;/task&gt;</codeblock><p>When <xmlelement>searchtitle</xmlelement> is used in maps, the element provides a new search
        title for the topic when used in a specific context. For example, the if the following map
        includes information about programming in many languages, searches among that information
        set will be most useful when they return "Example of programming in
        XSLT":<codeblock>&lt;topicref href="progexample.dita">
  &lt;topicmeta>
    &lt;navtitle>Programming example&lt;/navtitle>
    &lt;searchtitle>Example of programming in XSLT&lt;/searchtitle>
  &lt;/topicmeta>
&lt;/topicref></codeblock></p></example>
<section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p >The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          href="../attributes/universalAttributes.dita"/> and <xref
          href="../attributes/commonAttributes.dita#common-atts/outputclass"/>.</p>
      
    </section>
</refbody>
</reference>

