<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="section" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>section</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc conkeyref="library-short-descriptions/section"/>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
        <indexterm>elements<indexterm>body<indexterm><xmlelement>section</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>sections</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>Multiple <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> elements within a single topic do not represent a
        hierarchy, but rather peer divisions of that topic. Sections cannot be nested.</p>
      <p>For example, the titles <b>Reference Syntax</b> and <b>Properties</b> might represent
        section-level discourse within a topic about a command-line process—the content in each
          <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> relates uniquely to the subject of that topic.</p>
      <note>For maximum flexibility in creating specialization, sections allow plain text as well as
        phrase and block level elements. Because of the way XML grammars are defined within a DTD,
        any element that allows plain text cannot restrict the order or frequency of other elements.
        As a result, the <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> element allows
          <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> to appear anywhere as a child of
          <xmlelement>section</xmlelement>. However, the intent of the specification is that
          <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> should only be used once in any
          <xmlelement>section</xmlelement>, and when used, it should precede any other text or
        element content.</note>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="12 July 2018">
        <p>Tom: Is the above true about RNG?</p>
        <p>Robert: Should we make a normative statement about sections SHOULD have only one
          title?</p>
      </draft-comment>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
<p conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/universal-spectitle"/>
    </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein">
        <p>Sections are used in the DITA specification to provide a regular, consistent structure
          that lets a reader know exactly what will be there. Use example from DITA spec.</p>
      </draft-comment>
      <p>The following code sample ...</p><codeblock>&lt;reference id="reference"&gt;
 &lt;title&gt;Copy Command&lt;/title&gt;
 &lt;refbody&gt;
  &lt;section&gt;
   &lt;title&gt;Purpose&lt;/title&gt;
   &lt;p>This little command copies
   things.&lt;/p>
  &lt;/section&gt;
 &lt;/refbody&gt;
&lt;/reference&gt;</codeblock></example>
</refbody>
</reference>

