<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="subjectRelHeader" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>subjectRelHeader</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc>A subject relationship-table header is the header in a subject
    relationship table. It contains column definitions for the subject
    relationship table.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
                <indexterm>subjectScheme<indexterm>
                                elements<indexterm><xmlelement>subjectRelHeader</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
        <section id="usage-information">
            <title>Usage information</title>
            <p>Each cell in the header row identifies a subject topic that
        defines a role. When specializing the
          <xmlelement>subjectRelTable</xmlelement> element, you can
        accomplish the same purpose by specializing the cells within the
        rows to enforce the roles.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="specialization-hierachy">
            <title>Specialization hierarchy</title>
            <p>The <xmlelement>subjectRelHeader</xmlelement> element is specialized from
                    <xmlelement>relrow</xmlelement>. It is defined in the subject scheme module.</p>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein">
        <p>Why wasn't this element specialized from
            <xmlelement>relheader</xmlelement>?</p>
        <p>I think Erik Hennum wanted a different content model than
            <xmlelement>relheader</xmlelement> allowed:</p>
        <ul>
          <li><xmlelement>relheader</xmlelement> contains one or more
              <xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement>;
              <xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement> contains an optional
            title, optional topicmeta. and zero or more
              <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>.</li>
          <li><xmlelement>subjectRelHeader</xmlelement> has the same
            content model as <xmlelement>subjectRole</xmlelement> (subject
            reltable row): one or more <xmlelement>subjectRel</xmlelement>
            (subject reltable cell).</li>
        </ul>
        <p>I'm honestly not sure what the use cases for this were.</p>
      </draft-comment>
        </section>
        <section id="attributes">
            <title>Attributes</title>
            <p conkeyref="reuse-attributes/only-universal"/>
        </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples">
            <title>Examples</title>
      <p>The section contains examples of how the
          <xmlelement>subjectRelHeader</xmlelement> can be used.</p>
      <fig>
        <title>Simple example of a subject relationship-table
          header</title>
        <p>See <xref keyref="elements-subjectRelTable/example"
              ><xmlelement>subjectRelTable</xmlelement></xref>.</p>
      </fig>
      <fig>
        <title>More complex example of a  subject relationship-table
          header</title>
        <p>
          <draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein"
            time="07 December 2021">

            <p>Do we need such an example?</p>
          </draft-comment>
        </p>
      </fig>
        </example>
</refbody>
</reference>
