<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="subjectHead" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>subjectHead</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>subjectHead</xmlelement> element provides a
    heading for a group of subjects, for use if the subject scheme <ph
      rev="review-d">is rendered and displayed.</ph></shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
        <indexterm>subject scheme<indexterm>
                elements<indexterm><xmlelement>subjectHead</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>The heading provided by the <xmlelement>subjectHead</xmlelement>
        element might be displayed when a subject scheme is rendered to let
        users select subjects as part of a faceted browsing experience.</p>
      <p>The <xmlelement>subjectHead</xmlelement> element does not
        reference a resource. It also cannot specify either the
          <xmlatt>keys</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute, so it
        does not define any controlled values.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="specialization-hierachy">
      <title>Specialization hierarchy</title>
      <p>The <xmlelement>subjectHead</xmlelement> element is specialized from
          <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>. It is defined in the subject scheme module.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <ph
          conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-universalatts"/>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-common/attr-collection-type"><xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt></xref>,
          <xref keyref="attributes-common/attr-linking"><xmlatt>linking</xmlatt></xref>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-common/attr-processing-role"><xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt></xref>,
        and <xref keyref="attributes-common/attr-toc"><xmlatt>toc</xmlatt></xref>,. </p>
      <p id="attr-exception" outputclass="attr-exception">For this element,
        the following considerations apply:<ul id="ul_pz3_w3r_ppb">
          <li>The <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> attribute has an
            expected processing default value of
              <keyword>unordered</keyword>, although this value is not
            defaulted in the grammar files. This element limits the
            available values for <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> to
              <keyword>unordered</keyword>, <keyword>sequence</keyword>,
            and <keyword>-dita-use-conref-target</keyword>.</li>
          <li>The <xmlatt>linking</xmlatt> attribute has a default value of
              <keyword>normal</keyword>, and no other values are
            valid.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <example id="example" rev="review-d">
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>In the following code sample, the <xmlelement>subjectHead</xmlelement> elements define two
        groupings of subjects and associate labels.</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;subjectScheme toc="yes" search="no">
  &lt;subjectdef keys="hobbies">
    &lt;subjectdef keys="fiber-arts">
      &lt;subjectHead>
        &lt;subjectHeadMeta>
          &lt;navtitle>Fiber arts&lt;/navtitle>
        &lt;/subjectHeadMeta>
        &lt;subjectdef keys="knitting" href="knitting.dita"/>
        &lt;subjectdef keys="quilting" href="quilting.dita"/>
        &lt;subjectdef keys="sewing" href="sewing.dita/>
      &lt;/subjectHead>
    &lt;/subjectdef>
    &lt;subjectdef keys="woodworking">
      &lt;subjectHead>
        &lt;subjectHeadMeta>
          &lt;navtitle>Woodworking&lt;/navtitle>
        &lt;/subjectHeadMeta>
        &lt;subjectdef keys="scroll-sawing" href="scroll-sawing.dita"/>
        &lt;subjectdef keys="whittling" href="whittling.dita"/>
        &lt;subjectdef keys="wood-turning" href="woodturning.dita"/>
      &lt;/subjectHead>
    &lt;/subjectdef>
  &lt;/subjectdef>
&lt;/subjectScheme></codeblock>
    </example>
    <!--<example conkeyref="reuse-examples/example-subjectHead"/>-->
</refbody>
</reference>

