<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="table" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>table</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>A table based on the OASIS Exchange Table Model organizes arbitrarily complex
    relationships of tabular information. This standard table markup allows column or row spanning
    and table captions or descriptions.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
        <indexterm>table elements<indexterm><xmlelement>table</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>The DITA <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> element is based on the OASIS Exchange Table Model,
        augmented with DITA attributes that enable accessibility, specialization, conref, and other
        DITA processing. An optional <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> inside the
          <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> element provides a caption to describe the table. In
        addition, the optional <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement> element enables a table description
        that is parallel with a figure description.</p>
      <p>See <xref keyref="elements-simpletable"/> for a simplified table model that is closer to
        the HTML5 table model, and can be more easily specialized to represent regular relationships
        of data.</p>
      <p conkeyref="reuse-general/pgwide-explain"/>
      <note>The <xmlatt>scale</xmlatt> attribute represents a stylistic markup property that is
        currently maintained in tables for legacy purposes. External stylesheets should enable less
        dependency on this attribute. Use the <xmlatt>scale</xmlatt> attribute judiciously.</note>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref keyref="attributes-universal"
        />, <xref keyref="attributes-common/attr-frame"><xmlatt>frame</xmlatt></xref>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-common/attr-scale"><xmlatt>scale</xmlatt></xref>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-common/attr-colsep"><xmlatt>colsep</xmlatt></xref>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-common/attr-rowsep"><xmlatt>rowsep</xmlatt></xref>, <xref
          keyref="attributes-common/attr-rowheader"><xmlatt>rowheader</xmlatt></xref>, and the
        attributes defined below.</p>
      <draft-comment author="Robert">Looking for consistency on orient, pgwide, colsep, rowsep, and
        entry/@rotate. We have a mix of "Supported values" (seems to imply "processors MUST support
        at least these") or "Allowed values" (implies no other values are legal, and the wording
        used on most other attributes)? Also, are we consistent between "Allowable" and "Allowed"
        (allowed seems more correct for ennumerated values)?<p>Update after talking with Kris 14 May
          2021: Better to use: "The following values are valid:"</p></draft-comment>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="orient">
          <dt id="attr-orient"><xmlatt>orient</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the orientation of the table in page-based outputs. This attribute is
            primarily useful for print-oriented display. The following values are valid:<dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>port</dt>
                <dd>The same orientation as the text flow.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>land</dt>
                <dd>90 degrees counterclockwise from the text flow.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditauseconref">
                <dt/>
                <dd/>
              </dlentry>
            </dl><p>In situations where a stylesheet or other formatting mechanism specifies table
              orientation based on other criteria, or for non-paginated outputs, the
                <xmlatt>orient</xmlatt> attribute can be ignored.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="attr-pgwide"><xmlatt>pgwide</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the horizontal placement of the element. The following values are valid:
              <keyword>1</keyword> and <keyword>0</keyword>. For print-oriented display, the value
              <keyword>1</keyword> places the element on the left page margin; <keyword>0</keyword>
            aligns the element with the left margin of the current text line and takes indention
            into account. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title>
      <fig>
        <title>DITA source</title>
        <p>The following code sample shows a table that is used to provide reference information
          about animals and gestation:</p>
        <codeblock xml:space="preserve">&lt;table&gt;
&lt;tgroup cols="2"&gt;
&lt;colspec colwidth="121*"/&gt;
&lt;colspec colwidth="76*"/&gt;
&lt;thead&gt;
&lt;row&gt;
&lt;entry colname="COLSPEC0" valign="top"&gt;Animal&lt;/entry&gt;
&lt;entry colname="COLSPEC1" valign="top"&gt;Gestation&lt;/entry&gt;
&lt;/row&gt;
&lt;/thead&gt;
&lt;tbody&gt;
&lt;row&gt;
&lt;entry&gt;Elephant (African and Asian)&lt;/entry&gt;
&lt;entry&gt;19-22 months&lt;/entry&gt;
&lt;/row&gt;
&lt;row&gt;
&lt;entry&gt;Giraffe&lt;/entry&gt;
&lt;entry&gt;15 months&lt;/entry&gt;
&lt;/row&gt;
&lt;row&gt;
&lt;entry&gt;Rhinoceros&lt;/entry&gt;
&lt;entry&gt;14-16 months&lt;/entry&gt;
&lt;/row&gt;
&lt;row&gt;
&lt;entry&gt;Hippopotamus&lt;/entry&gt;
&lt;entry&gt;7 1/2 months&lt;/entry&gt;
&lt;/row&gt;
&lt;/tbody&gt;
&lt;/tgroup&gt;
&lt;/table&gt;</codeblock>
      </fig>
      <p>The formatted output might be displayed as follows:</p>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colwidth="121*"/>
          <colspec colwidth="76*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry valign="top">Animal</entry>
              <entry valign="top">Gestation</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Elephant (African and Asian)</entry>
              <entry>19-22 months</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Giraffe</entry>
              <entry>15 months</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Rhinoceros</entry>
              <entry>14-16 months</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Hippopotamus</entry>
              <entry>7 1/2 months</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <p>In this example, the use of the <xmlelement>thead</xmlelement> element for the header
        allows processors or screen readers to identify a header relationship between any cell in
        the table body and the matching header cell above that column.</p></example>
    <example id="implied-accessibility" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example: Complex table with implied accessibility markup</title>
      <draft-comment author="Robert">Discussed with Kris October 5 2020: would be good to have a
        section on accessibility in the architectural spec; if that is created, some of these
        examples might be better placed there.</draft-comment>
      <p>In the following example, the table uses <xmlelement>thead</xmlelement> to identify header
        rows and <xmlatt>rowheader</xmlatt> to identify a header column. This header relationship
        can be used to automatically create renderings of the table in other formats, such as HTML,
        that can be navigated using a screen reader or other assistive technology.</p>
      <fig id="source-implied-accessibility">
        <title>DITA source</title>
        <codeblock>&lt;table frame="all" rowheader="firstcol"&gt;
  &lt;title&gt;Sample of automated table accessibility&lt;/title>
&lt;desc>Names are listed in the column c1. Points are listed in both data columns, with
expected points in column c2 and actual points in column c3.&lt;/desc>
  &lt;tgroup cols="3">
    &lt;colspec colname="c1"/>
    &lt;colspec colname="c2"/>
    &lt;colspec colname="c3"/>
    &lt;thead>
      &lt;row>
        &lt;entry morerows="1">Name&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry namest="c2" nameend="c3">points&lt;/entry>
      &lt;/row>
      &lt;row>
        &lt;entry>expected&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry>actual&lt;/entry>
      &lt;/row>
    &lt;/thead>
    &lt;tbody>
      &lt;row>
        &lt;entry>Mark&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry>10,000&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry>11,123.45&lt;/entry>
      &lt;/row>
      &lt;row>
        &lt;entry>Peter&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry>9,000&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry>11,012.34&lt;/entry>
      &lt;/row>
      &lt;row>
        &lt;entry>Cindy&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry>10,000&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry>10,987.64&lt;/entry>
      &lt;/row>
     &lt;/tbody>
   &lt;/tgroup>
&lt;/table></codeblock>
      </fig>
      <p>In this sample, navigation information for assistive technology is derived from two sources:<ul>
          <li>The <xmlelement>thead</xmlelement> element contains two rows, and indicates that each
              <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement> in those rows is a header cell for that column. This
            means that each body cell can be associated with the header cell or cells above the
            column. For example, in the second body row, the entry "Peter" can be associated with
            the header "Name"; similarly, the entry "9,000" can be associated with the headers
            "expected" and "points".</li>
          <li>The <xmlatt>rowheader</xmlatt> attribute implies that the first column plays a similar
            roll as a header. This means that each body cell in columns two and three can be
            associated with the header cell in column one. For example, in the second body row, the
            entry "9,000" can be associated with the header "Peter".</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>As a result of these two sets of headers, a rendering of the table can associate the entry
        "9,000" with three headers: "Peter", "expected", and "points", making it fully navigable by
        a screen reader or other assistive technology.</p>
      <p>The formatted output might be displayed as follows:</p>
      <table id="table_eww_xxl_4n" rowheader="firstcol" frame="all">
        <title>Sample of automated table accessibility</title>
        <desc>Names are listed in the column c1. Points are listed in both data columns, with
          expected points in column c2 and actual points in column c3.</desc>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="c1"/>
          <colspec colname="c2"/>
          <colspec colname="c3"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry morerows="1">Name</entry>
              <entry namest="c2" nameend="c3">points</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>expected</entry>
              <entry>actual</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Mark</entry>
              <entry>10,000</entry>
              <entry>11,123.45</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Peter</entry>
              <entry>9,000</entry>
              <entry>11,012.34</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Cindy</entry>
              <entry>10,000</entry>
              <entry>10,987.64</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </example>
  <example  id="accessibility-manual" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Complex table with some manually specified accessibility markup</title>
      <p>In some complex tables, the <xmlelement>thead</xmlelement> element and
          <xmlatt>rowheader</xmlatt> attribute might not be enough to support all accessibility
        needs. Assume that the table above is flipped so that the names are listed across the top
        row, instead of in the first column, as follows:</p>
      <table frame="all" id="table_nzp_zzl_4n">
        <title>Sample with two header columns</title>
        <tgroup cols="5">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <colspec colname="newCol5" colnum="5" colwidth="1*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry namest="c1" nameend="c2"> Name</entry>
              <entry>Mark</entry>
              <entry>Peter</entry>
              <entry>Cindy</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry morerows="1"><b>points</b></entry>
              <entry><b>expected</b></entry>
              <entry>10,000</entry>
              <entry>9,000</entry>
              <entry>10,000</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><b>actual</b></entry>
              <entry>11,123.45</entry>
              <entry>11,012.34</entry>
              <entry>10,987.64</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <p>In this case the <xmlatt>rowheader</xmlatt> attribute cannot be used, because it is only
        able to specify the first column as a header column. In this case, the
          <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> attribute can be used to indicate that entries in the first and
        second columns function as headers for the entire row (or row group, in the case of a cell
        that spans more than one row). The following code sample demonstrates the use of
          <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> to facilitate navigation of these rows by a screen reader or other
        assistive technology; note that the <xmlelement>thead</xmlelement> element is still used to
        imply a header relationship with the names at the top of each column.</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;table frame="all">
 &lt;title>Sample with two header columns&lt;/title>
 &lt;tgroup cols="5">
  &lt;colspec colname="c1"/>
  &lt;colspec colname="c2"/>
  &lt;colspec colname="c3"/>
  &lt;colspec colname="c4"/>
  &lt;colspec colname="c5"/>
  &lt;thead>
   &lt;row>
    &lt;entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">Name&lt;/entry>
    &lt;entry>Mark&lt;/entry>
    &lt;entry>Peter&lt;/entry>
    &lt;entry>Cindy&lt;/entry>
   &lt;/row>
  &lt;/thead>
  &lt;tbody>
   &lt;row>
    &lt;entry morerows="1" <b>scope="rowgroup"</b>>&lt;b>points&lt;/b>&lt;/entry>
    &lt;entry <b>scope="row"</b>>&lt;b>expected&lt;/b>&lt;/entry>
    &lt;entry>10,000&lt;/entry>
    &lt;entry>9,000&lt;/entry>
    &lt;entry>10,000&lt;/entry>
   &lt;/row>
   &lt;row>
    &lt;entry <b>scope="row"</b>>&lt;b>actual&lt;/b>&lt;/entry>
    &lt;entry>11,123.45&lt;/entry>
    &lt;entry>11,012.34&lt;/entry>
    &lt;entry>10,987.64&lt;/entry>
   &lt;/row>
  &lt;/tbody>
 &lt;/tgroup>
&lt;/table></codeblock>
    </example>
    <example  id="complex-manual-accessibility" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example: complex table with manual accessibility markup</title>
      <p>In extremely complex tables, such as those with a single header cell in the middle of the
        table, extremely fine grained accessibility controls are available to explicitly associate
        any content cell with any header cell. This <ph >might</ph> also be
        useful for cases where processors do not support the implied accessibility relationships
        described above.</p>
      <p>In the following sample, header cells are identified using the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt>
        attribute, which is referenced using the <xmlatt>headers</xmlatt> attribute on appropriate
        content cells. This makes all header relationships in the table explicit. Note that this
        sample ignores the <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> attribute, which could be used to exercise manual
        control without setting as many attribute values; it also ignores the fact that
          <xmlelement>thead</xmlelement> creates a header relationship even when the
          <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>headers</xmlatt> attributes are not used.</p>
      <fig id="fig_qt4_sbm_4n">
        <title>DITA source</title>
        <codeblock>&lt;table frame="all"&gt;
  &lt;title&gt;Sample with fully manual accessibility control&lt;/title>
&lt;desc>Names are listed in the column c1. Points are listed in both data columns, with
expected points in column c2 and actual points in column c3.&lt;/desc>
  &lt;tgroup cols="3">
    &lt;colspec colname="c1"/>
    &lt;colspec colname="c2"/>
    &lt;colspec colname="c3"/>
    &lt;thead>
      &lt;row>
        &lt;entry morerows="1"> &lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry namest="c2" nameend="c3" <b>id="pts"</b>>points&lt;/entry>
      &lt;/row>
      &lt;row>
        &lt;entry <b>id="exp" headers="pts"</b>>expected&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry <b>id="act" headers="pts"</b>>actual&lt;/entry>
      &lt;/row>
    &lt;/thead>
    &lt;tbody>
      &lt;row>
        &lt;entry <b>id="name1"</b>>Mark&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry <b>headers="name1 exp pts"</b>>10,000&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry <b>headers="name1 act pts"</b>>11,123.45&lt;/entry>
      &lt;/row>
      &lt;row>
        &lt;entry <b>id="name2"</b>>Peter&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry <b>headers="name2 exp pts"</b>>9,000&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry <b>headers="name2 act pts"</b>>11,012.34&lt;/entry>
      &lt;/row>
      &lt;row>
        &lt;entry <b>id="name3"</b>>Cindy&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry <b>headers="name3 exp pts"</b>>10,000&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry <b>headers="name3 act pts"</b>>10,987.64&lt;/entry>
      &lt;/row>
     &lt;/tbody>
   &lt;/tgroup>
&lt;/table></codeblock>
      </fig>
      <p>The formatted output might be displayed as follows:</p>
      <table id="table_yrp_sbm_4n">
        <title>Sample with fully manual accessibility control</title>
        <desc>Names are listed in the column c1. Points are listed in both data columns, with
          expected points in column c2 and actual points in column c3.</desc>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="c1"/>
          <colspec colname="c2"/>
          <colspec colname="c3"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry morerows="1"> </entry>
              <entry namest="c2" nameend="c3">points</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>expected</entry>
              <entry>actual</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Mark</entry>
              <entry>10,000</entry>
              <entry>11,123.45</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Peter</entry>
              <entry>9,000</entry>
              <entry>11,012.34</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Cindy</entry>
              <entry>10,000</entry>
              <entry>10,987.64</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </example>
</refbody>
</reference>

