<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="titlealt">
    <title><xmlelement>titlealt</xmlelement></title>
    <shortdesc>An alternative title is used to convey information about a document in contexts other
        than straightforward display.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>processing
                        expectations<indexterm><xmlelement>titlealt</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <refbody>
        <section id="usage-information">
            <title>Usage Information</title>
            <draft-comment author="robander" time="13 May 2021">Questions as I read this more
                    closely:<ol id="ul_y12_sgk_ppb">
                    <li>"alternative titles from the topicref are merged with those" ==> merging
                        implies processing, so I think this needs to be reworded or moved to
                        processing.</li>
                    <li>It says title-role must specify at least one role, but it's not a required
                        attribute. What does it mean if it's *not* specified?</li>
                </ol></draft-comment>
            <p>Alternative titles can be used in topics and in maps. When used in the
                    <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> of a root <xmlelement>map</xmlelement>
                element, the alternative title applies to the map itself. When used inside a
                    <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>, the alternative title applies to the resource
                referenced by the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>. When the referenced resource is
                a DITA topic, the alternative titles from the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> are
                merged with those authored directly in the topic, with the alternative titles from
                the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> taking higher priority.</p>
            <p>The roles of an alternative title are specified by its <xmlatt>title-role</xmlatt>
                attribute. Multiple roles may be specified, separated by white space. An alternative
                title must specify at least one role.</p>
            <p>Some roles may not be meaningful in certain contexts. For example, a navigational
                alternate title is not meaningful in the context of a
                    <xmlelement>topicgroup</xmlelement> element's
                <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement>, since the element is not part of a publication's
                navigational structure. Such alternate titles should be ignored by processors.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="processing-expectations">
            <title>Processing expectations</title>
            <draft-comment author="robander" time="13 May 2021">Questions as I read this more
                    closely:<ol id="ol_aff_zgk_ppb">
                    <li>"Processors are required to support the following role tokens" ==> this
                        sounds like a MUST? But they might not be relevant to some processors, so
                        MUST is difficult.</li>
                    <li>Some of this language implies a specific type of processor, which we've had
                        trouble with in the past; language may need to be more processor
                        agnostic</li>
                    <li>Also overlaps with rendering, such as stating where a subtitle generally
                        appears</li>
                    <li>"Content architects are encouraged to develop..." sounds more like usage
                        than processing</li>
                    <li>it ends saying unknown roles MUST be ignored - can we make that a SHOULD?
                        With MUST it seems like it would be invalid even for a review tool to
                        display those.</li>
                </ol><p>Given the complications, the number of required samples, and the impact on
                    processing, it feels like this deserves a page in the architectural
                    specifciation.</p></draft-comment>
            <p>The processing of an alternative title depends on its roles. Processors are required
                to support the following role tokens.</p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><codeph>linking</codeph></dt>
                    <dd>The title for use in references to the resources generated from DITA map
                        structures, such as hierarchical parent/child/sibling links and links
                        generated from relationship tables. In addition, this is the fallback
                        alternative title for <codeph>navigation</codeph> and
                            <codeph>search</codeph> roles. Other, non-standardized title roles meant
                        for use in link generation should also use this as a fallback.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><codeph>navigation</codeph></dt>
                    <dd>The title for use in tables of content and other navigation aids. In some
                        cases, when processing a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> that has no
                            <xmlatt>href</xmlatt>, this should also be used as the title of the
                        generated pseudo-topic, if applicable. If not present, this role is
                        fulfilled by the <codeph>linking</codeph> role.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><codeph>search</codeph></dt>
                    <dd>The title for use in search results for systems that support content search.
                        If not present, this role is fulfilled by the <codeph>linking</codeph>
                        role.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><codeph>subtitle</codeph></dt>
                    <dd>A subtitle for the document, generally to be rendered below the primary
                        title in a smaller size.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><codeph>hint</codeph></dt>
                    <dd>A hint for the benefit of map authors, allowing them to see the title of a
                        referenced resource without needing to access the resource itself. Does not
                        have an effect on processing or output.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditauseconref">
                    <dt/>
                    <dd/>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
            <p>Other roles may be defined by processors, authors, or content architects for specific
                purposes. Content architects are encouraged to develop specializations of this
                element specifying default roles for use by their authors for specific use cases.
                The base DITA vocabulary contains an alternative titles domain providing
                specializations of this element that fulfill each of the above roles.</p>
            <p>Alternative titles bearing roles that are not recognized by the processor <keyword
                    outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</keyword> be ignored and not appear in output.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="attributes">
            <title>Attributes</title>
            <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <ph
                    conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-universalatts"/> and <xref
                    keyref="attributes-common/attr-title-role"
                ><xmlatt>title-role</xmlatt></xref>.</p>
        </section>
        <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
            <title>Examples</title>
            <p>This section contains examples of how the <xmlelement>titlealt</xmlelement> element
                can be used.</p>
            <fig id="fig_zzv_3zk_nnb">
                <title>Subtitles</title>
                <p>The following map specifies a subtitle.</p>
                <codeblock>&lt;map>
  &lt;title>Publication title&lt;/title>
  &lt;topicmeta>
    &lt;titlealt title-role="subtitle">Publication subtitle&lt;/titlealt>
  &lt;/topicmeta>
&lt;/map></codeblock>
            </fig>
            <fig id="fig_gyy_mzk_nnb">
                <title>Alternative titles with multiple roles</title>
                <p>The following alternative title serves both as a navigation title and a search
                    title.</p>
                <codeblock>&lt;titlealt title-role="navigation search">Short title&lt;/titlealt></codeblock>
            </fig>
            <fig>
                <title>Example: Multiple Titles and their Uses</title>
                <p>The following topicref contains a number of alternative titles.</p>
                <codeblock>&lt;topicref keys="about" href="about.dita">
  &lt;topicmeta>
    &lt;titlealt title-role="navigation">About the Product&lt;/titlealt>
    &lt;titlealt title-role="linking">About This Product&lt;/titlealt>
    &lt;titlealt title-role="search">About&lt;/titlealt>
    &lt;titlealt title-role="hint">About the Acme TextMax 5000&lt;/titlealt>
  &lt;/topicmeta>
&lt;/topicref></codeblock>
                <ol id="ol_av5_mps_yjb">
                    <li>The <codeph>navigation</codeph> title will be used when rendering the table
                        of contents.</li>
                    <li>The <codeph>linking</codeph> title will be used when generating
                        parent/child/sibling and relationship table-based related links to this
                        topic.</li>
                    <li>The <codeph>search</codeph> title will be used to provide the title in
                        systems that support dynamic content searches.</li>
                    <li>The <codeph>hint</codeph> title describes the actual title of the topic for
                        the benefit of map authors, but will not be used in output.</li>
                </ol>
            </fig>
            <fig id="fig_kpg_vyk_nnb">
                <title>Custom title roles</title>
                <p>A content architect could create a Topic specialization with custom
                        <xmlelement>titlealt</xmlelement> specializations called
                        <xmlelement>windowtitle</xmlelement> and
                        <xmlelement>breadcrumbtitle</xmlelement>. These specializations specify
                    default <xmlatt>title-role</xmlatt> values of <codeph>window</codeph> and
                        <codeph>breadcrumb</codeph>, respectively, so that authors do not have to
                    specify those roles explicitly. Content containing these specializations could
                    look like the following.</p>
                <codeblock>&lt;helpTopic id="topic167">
  &lt;title>Doing the Thing in the Place where the Stuff Is&lt;/title>
  &lt;prolog>
    &lt;windowtitle>Doing Things&lt;/windowtitle>
    &lt;breadcrumbtitle>Things&lt;/breadcrumbtitle>
  &lt;/prolog></codeblock>
                <p>They could also incorporate these elements into their map document type shell,
                    enabling map authors to override the values in topics.</p>
                <codeblock>&lt;topicref href="topic167.dita">
  &lt;topicmeta>
    &lt;breadcrumbtitle>Thing Doing&lt;/breadcrumbtitle>
  &lt;/topicmeta>
&lt;/topicref></codeblock>
            </fig>
            
            <fig id="fig_kpm_rxk_nnb">
                <title>Navigation titles and precedence</title>
                <p>Consider the following series of topic references:</p>
                <codeblock>&lt;topicref href="topics.dita#one"/>
&lt;topicref href="topics.dita#two">
  &lt;topicmeta>
    &lt;titlealt title-role="navigation">Topic Two (Map navigation title)&lt;/titlealt>
  &lt;/topicmeta>
&lt;/topicref>
&lt;topicref href="topics.dita#three">
  &lt;topicmeta>
    &lt;titlealt title-role="linking">Topic Three (Map linking title)&lt;/titlealt>
  &lt;/topicmeta>
&lt;/topicref>
&lt;topicref href="topics.dita#four">
  &lt;topicmeta>
    &lt;titlealt title-role="linking">Topic Four (Map linking title)&lt;/titlealt>
  &lt;/topicmeta>
&lt;/topicref></codeblock>
                <p>Here is the ditabase document containing those topics:</p>
                <codeblock>&lt;dita>
  &lt;topic id="one">
    &lt;title>Topic One&lt;/title>
  &lt;/topic>
  &lt;topic id="two">
    &lt;title>Topic Two&lt;/title>
    &lt;prolog>
      &lt;titlealt title-role="navigation">Topic Two (Topic navigation title)&lt;/titlealt>
    &lt;/prolog>
  &lt;/topic>
  &lt;topic id="three">
    &lt;title>Topic Three&lt;/title>
  &lt;/topic>
  &lt;topic id="four">
    &lt;title>Topic Four&lt;/title>
    &lt;prolog>
      &lt;titlealt title-role="navigation">Topic Four (Topic navigation title)&lt;/titlealt>
    &lt;/prolog>
  &lt;/topic>
&lt;/dita></codeblock>
                <p>The resulting navigation structure would be as follows:</p>
                <ol id="ul_z2w_rx5_dgb">
                    <li><b>Topic One</b> - The navigation title is pulled from the title of the
                        topic, since neither the map nor the topic specify a navigation title.</li>
                    <li><b>Topic Two (Map navigation title)</b> - The navigation title comes from
                        the map, as its navigation title takes precedence over that in the
                        topic.</li>
                    <li><b>Topic Three (Map linking title)</b> - The navigation title comes from the
                        map, which serves as the fallback for navigation titles when no
                            <codeph>navigation</codeph> alternative title is provided.</li>
                    <li><b>Topic Four (Topic navigation title)</b> - The navigation title comes from
                        the topic. Even though the map specifies a <xmlelement>titlealt</xmlelement>
                        with a role of <codeph>linking</codeph>, and normally maps take precedence,
                        a <codeph>linking</codeph> alternative title is only used for navigation
                        when there is no <codeph>navigation</codeph> alternative title available. In
                        this case, the one from the topic is present, and is therefore used. To
                        override the topic's navigation title in this case, the topic reference
                        would have to explicitly provide a <codeph>navigation</codeph> alternative
                        title. The <codeph>linking</codeph> title in the map still applies as the
                        resource's linking title, just not its navigation title.</li>
                </ol>
            </fig>
            <fig>
                <title>Example: Reconciling Map and Topic Alternative Titles</title>
                <p>A <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> contains the following titles:</p>
                <codeblock>&lt;topicref href="topic.dita">
  &lt;topicmeta>
    &lt;titlealt title-role="breadcrumbTitle">Doin' Stuff&lt;/titlealt>
    &lt;titlealt title-role="longTitle">That thing you do when there's stuff that needs doing.&lt;/titlealt>
  &lt;/topicmeta.
&lt;/topicref></codeblock>
                <p>The referenced topic has the following prolog:</p>
                <codeblock>&lt;prolog>
  &lt;titlealt title-role="subtitle">Doing Stuff&lt;/titlealt>
  &lt;titlealt title-role="breadcrumbTitle flipbookTitle">Stuff&lt;/titlealt>
&lt;/prolog></codeblock>
                <p>During processing, the two sets of elements will be concatenated together (logically,
                    if not physically), with the map's elements coming first:</p>
                <codeblock>&lt;titlealt title-role="breadcrumbTitle">Doin' Stuff&lt;/titlealt>
&lt;titlealt title-role="longTitle">That thing you do when there's stuff that needs doing.&lt;/titlealt>
&lt;titlealt title-role="subtitle">Doing Stuff&lt;/titlealt>
&lt;titlealt title-role="breadcrumbTitle flipbookTitle">Stuff&lt;/titlealt></codeblock>
                <p>Note that <codeph>breadcrumbTitle</codeph> is specified in both the map and the
                    topic, and the map's value takes precedence. However, that same alternative
                    title in the topic specifies an additional role of
                        <codeph>flipbookTitle</codeph>, which is not overridden by the map, and so
                    should be preserved.</p>
                <p>The equivalent merged alternative titles, with duplicates removed, would look as
                    follows.</p>
                <codeblock>&lt;titlealt title-role="breadcrumbTitle">Doin' Stuff&lt;/titlealt>
&lt;titlealt title-role="longTitle">That thing you do when there's stuff that needs doing.&lt;/titlealt>
&lt;titlealt title-role="subtitle">Doing Stuff&lt;/titlealt>
&lt;titlealt title-role="flipbookTitle">Stuff&lt;/titlealt></codeblock>
            </fig>
            <fig id="fig_p2k_yf2_xnb">
                <title>Example: Conrefs and Title Roles</title>
                <p>Consider the following conrefs:</p>
                <codeblock>&lt;titlealt title-role="linking" conref="titles.dita#someAltTitle"></codeblock>
                <p>In this case, the roles for the resolved element will be
                    <codeph>linking</codeph>; any other roles specified on the referenced element
                    will be lost.</p>
                <codeblock>&lt;titlealt title-role="search -dita-use-conref-target" conref="titles.dita#someAltTitle"></codeblock>
                <p>In this case, the roles for the resolved element will be whatever is specified on
                    the referenced element.</p>
                <note>The <codeph>search</codeph> token has no effect, and will be ignored. The
                    presence of <codeph>-dita-use-conref-target</codeph> in
                        <xmlatt>title-role</xmlatt> overrides all other tokens. The roles on the
                    referencing and referenced elements are not merged; only those from the
                    referenced element apply.</note>
            </fig>
            <fig>
                <title>Keyrefs and alternative titles</title>
                <p>Consider the following two topic references:</p>
                <codeblock>&lt;topicref keys="a">
  &lt;topicmeta>
    &lt;titlealt title-role="linking">Linking Title from Keyref&lt;/titlealt>
    &lt;titlealt title-role="navigation">Navigation Title from Keyref&lt;/titlealt>
  &lt;/topicmeta>
&lt;/topicref>
&lt;topicref keyref="a">
  &lt;topicmeta>
    &lt;titlealt title-role="navigation">Navigation Title&lt;/titlealt>
  &lt;/topicmeta>
&lt;/topicref></codeblock>
                <p>The resolved titles would look something like this:</p>
                <codeblock>&lt;titlealt title-role="navigation">Navigation Title&lt;/titlealt>
&lt;titlealt title-role="linking">Linking Title from Keyref&lt;/titlealt>
&lt;titlealt title-role="navigation">Navigation Title from Keyref&lt;/titlealt></codeblock>
                <p>That is, the "local" alternative titles come before those pulled from the key
                    reference. In cases where only a single alternative title of a given role can be
                    used, the first takes precedence, so the <codeph>navigation</codeph> title from
                    the key reference has no effect.</p>
            </fig>
        </example>
    </refbody>
</reference>
