<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="titlehint" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title><xmlelement>titlehint</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc>A title hint provides information to map authors about the title of the referenced
    resource.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>processing
          expectations<indexterm><xmlelement>titlehint</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>Title hints are intended to provide the title of referenced resources to map authors when
        the title may not be immediately accessible. It is not rendered as part of the
        publication.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="processing-expectations">
      <title>Processing expectations</title>
      <p>The <xmlelement>titlehint</xmlelement> element is a specialization of
          <xmlelement>titlealt</xmlelement> with the <xmlatt>title-role</xmlatt> set to
          <codeph>hint</codeph>. Processing is dictated by the rules for
          <xmlelement>titlealt</xmlelement>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="specialization-hierachy">
      <title>Specialization hierarchy</title>
      <p>The <xmlelement>titlehint</xmlelement> element is specialized from
          <xmlelement>titlealt</xmlelement>. It is defined in the alternativeTitle-domain
        module.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-universalatts"/> and the attribute listed below.</p>
      <dl id="dl_w2g_qvq_lpb">
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="attr-title-role"><xmlatt>title-role</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the role or roles fulfilled by the alternative title. On this element the
            value has a default value of <codeph>hint</codeph>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Examples</title>
      <p>This section contains examples of how the <xmlelement>titlehint</xmlelement> element can be
        used.</p>
      <fig id="figure-3">
        <title>Referencing remote DITA resources</title>
        <p>The following code sample shows how <xmlelement>titlehint</xmlelement> can be used to
          show the title of a referenced topic to map authors in the context of a CMS with opaque
          URIs.</p>
        <codeblock>&lt;topicref href="x-id://AOE82KJAW1B0">
  &lt;topicmeta>
    <b>&lt;titlehint>Getting started&lt;/titlehint></b>
  &lt;/topicmeta>
&lt;/topicref></codeblock>
      </fig>
    </example>
  </refbody>
</reference>
