<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="topicSubjectTable" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>topicSubjectTable</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>topicSubjectTable</xmlelement> element is a specialized relationship
    table which allows a map to use relationship tables to associate topics with subjects. Tools
    (such as search tools) <ph >might</ph> use these classifications to
    retrieve content that is relative to a specific subject or combination of subjects.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>topicSubjectTable</indexterm>
        <indexterm>classification domain
          elements<indexterm>topicSubjectTable</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="section-1"><p>In a <xmlelement>topicSubjectTable</xmlelement>, the first column is reserved for references to
        content. Subsequent columns are reserved for subjects that classify the content, each column
        supplying the subjects for a different category as identified in the header. The table
        resembles a traditional relationship table in which the first column identifies the source
        and the other columns identify the targets, but the relationship reflects the subjects
        covered by the content rather than linking between documents. </p><note>In a traditional <xmlelement>reltable</xmlelement>, topics in any given column establish
        relationships with topics in every other cell of the same row. In a
          <xmlelement>topicSubjectTable</xmlelement>, topics in the first column are related to all
        of the subjects in the row, but no relationship is implied between subjects in different
        columns of the same row. Instead, relationships are defined between subjects using a subject
        scheme map (which provides a <xmlelement>subjectRelTable</xmlelement> element for
        non-hierarchical relationships between subjects).</note></section>
<section conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-topicSubjectTable/contains" id="contains" otherprops="contains"></section>
<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance"><title>Inheritance</title><p>+
map/reltable classify-d/topicSubjectTable </p></section>
    <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>The topic subject table below classifies topics with goals for retrieval and with operating
        systems for filtering. The map makes use of definitions in a subject scheme map, defined
        separately.</p>
      <fig id="fig_ff4_g3h_dn">
        <title>Subject scheme map</title>
        <codeblock>&lt;subjectScheme>
    &lt;hasKind>
        &lt;subjectdef href="goalType.dita" keys="goal">
            &lt;subjectdef href="performanceGoal.dita" keys="performance"/>
            &lt;subjectdef href="reliabilityGoal.dita" keys="reliability"/>
        &lt;/subjectdef>
        &lt;subjectdef href="operatingSystem.dita" keys="os">
            &lt;subjectdef href="linuxOS.dita" keys="linux"/>
            &lt;subjectdef href="unixOS.dita" keys="unix"/>
            &lt;subjectdef href="windowsOS.dita" keys="windows"/>
        &lt;/subjectdef>
    &lt;/hasKind>
&lt;/subjectScheme></codeblock>
      </fig>
      <fig id="fig_t34_g3h_dn">
        <title>Topic subject table</title>
        <p>The following <xmlelement>topicSubjectTable</xmlelement> classifies several topics
          according to subjects in the previous map. As with any
            <xmlelement>topicSubjectTable</xmlelement>, the first column is used to specify topics.
          In this specific example, the second column is used to specify a goal, based on the "goal"
          subject in the header. The third column is used to specify an operating system. Based on
          those definitions, the following classifications are made by this table:<ul>
            <li>The topics "Configuring cron for efficient startup" and "Allocating raw storage" are
              each classified by the goal of "performance"; in addition, they are classified by the
              operating systems "linux" and "unix".</li>
            <li>The topics "Analyzing web logs for service issues" and "Detecting denial-of-service
              attacks" are each classified by the goal of "reliability"; in addition, they are
              classified by the operating systems "linux", "unix", and "windows".</li>
            <li>No relationship is defined between subjects in the table, meaning that this table
              does not define any relationship between the goal of "performance" and the operating
              systems "linux" or "unix".</li>
          </ul></p>
        <codeblock>&lt;map>
&lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;topicSubjectTable>
  &lt;topicSubjectHeader>
    &lt;topicCell type="task"/>
    &lt;subjectCell>
      &lt;topicsubject keyref="goal"/>
    &lt;/subjectCell>
    &lt;subjectCell>
      &lt;topicapply keyref="os"/>
    &lt;/subjectCell>
  &lt;/topicSubjectHeader>
  &lt;topicSubjectRow>
    &lt;topicCell>
      &lt;topicref href="webServerStart.dita" navtitle="Configuring cron for efficient startup"/>
      &lt;topicref href="dbDisk.dita" navtitle="Allocating raw storage"/>
    &lt;/topicCell>
    &lt;subjectCell>
      &lt;topicsubject keyref="performance"/>
    &lt;/subjectCell>
    &lt;subjectCell>
      &lt;topicapply keyref="linux"/>
      &lt;topicapply keyref="unix"/>
    &lt;/subjectCell>
  &lt;/topicSubjectRow>
  &lt;topicSubjectRow>
    &lt;topicCell>
      &lt;topicref href="webLogAnalyze.dita" navtitle="Analyzing web logs for service issues"/>
      &lt;topicref href="webDenialService.dita" navtitle="Detecting denial-of-service attacks"/>
    &lt;/topicCell>
    &lt;subjectCell>
      &lt;topicsubject keyref="reliability"/>
    &lt;/subjectCell>
    &lt;subjectCell>
      &lt;topicapply keyref="linux"/>
      &lt;topicapply keyref="unix"/>
      &lt;topicapply keyref="windows"/>
    &lt;/subjectCell>
  &lt;/topicSubjectRow>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/topicSubjectTable>
&lt;/map></codeblock>
        <p>A table view of this <xmlelement>topicSubjectTable</xmlelement> might look as follows.
          This is only one of many possible views; to aid in understanding the example, the content
          topics in the first column are displayed using only their titles, and related subjects are
          displayed using only their <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute value.</p>
        <simpletable>
          <sthead>
            <stentry><i>task</i></stentry>
            <stentry><i>goal</i></stentry>
            <stentry><i>os</i></stentry>
          </sthead>
          <strow>
            <stentry>
              <lines>Configuring cron for efficient startup

Allocating raw storage</lines>
            </stentry>
            <stentry>
              <lines>performance</lines>
            </stentry>
            <stentry>
              <lines>linux
unix</lines>
            </stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>
              <lines>Analyzing web logs for service issues

Detecting denial-of-service attacks</lines>
            </stentry>
            <stentry>
              <lines>reliability</lines>
            </stentry>
            <stentry>
              <lines>linux
unix
windows</lines>
            </stentry>
          </strow>
        </simpletable>
      </fig>
    </example>
<section id="attributes"><title>Attributes</title><sectiondiv
        conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/reltable-minus-title"
      /></section>
</refbody>
</reference>

