<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="topicsetref" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement> element references a
      <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> element. The referenced <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement>
    element can be defined in the current map or in another map.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>elements<indexterm>mapgroup<indexterm><xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>processing expectations<indexterm><xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> and
              <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="processing-expectations">
      <title>Processing expectations</title>
      <p>When possible, applications should treat the referenced <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement>
        as an independent unit. For example, an application that renders DITA for a dynamic
        navigation platform <ph>might</ph> generate a reusable navigation structure for each
          <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement>, and each <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement> is
        retained as a reference to that structure. This differs slightly from the processing of the
          <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute, which results in a literal copy of the referenced
        content.</p>
      <p>For situations that do not support reusing a topic set as an independent unit, such as a
        rendered PDF, applications <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> resolve the
          <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement> element as for other
          <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> (or <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>) elements that
        have the <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute set to "ditamap".</p>
      <p>As with other cases where the attribute <codeph>format="ditamap"</codeph> is specified or
        used as a default, the use of topic references nested inside of
          <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement> is undefined.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="specialization-hierarchy">
      <title>Specialization hierarchy</title>
      <p>+ map/topicref mapgroup-d/topicsetref </p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          href="../attributes/universalAttributes.dita"/>, <xref
          href="../attributes/linkRelationshipAttributes.dita"/> (with narrowed definitions of
          <xmlatt>href</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>format</xmlatt>, and <xmlatt>type</xmlatt>, given below),
          <xref href="../attributes/commonMapAttributes.dita"/>, <xref
          href="../attributes/topicrefElementAttributes.dita"/>, <xref
          href="../attributes/commonAttributes.dita#common-atts/outputclass"/>, <xref
          href="../attributes/thekeysattribute.dita"><xmlatt>keys</xmlatt></xref>, and <xref
          href="../attributes/thekeyrefattribute.dita"><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></xref>.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="href-on-topicsetref"><xmlatt>href</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>A pointer to the <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> represented by
              <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement>. See <xref
              href="../attributes/thehrefattribute.dita"/> for detailed information on syntax.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="format-on-topicsetref"><xmlatt>format</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>The <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute identifies the format of the resource being
            referenced. For the <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement> element, this attribute
            defaults to "ditamap", because the element typically references a branch of a map. See
              <xref href="../attributes/theformatattribute.dita"/> for details on other supported
            values.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="type-on-topicsetref"><xmlatt>type</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Describes the target of a reference. For the <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement>
            element, this attribute defaults to "topicset". See <xref
              href="../attributes/thetypeattribute.dita"/> for detailed information on other
            supported values and processing implications.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title>
<p >The <filepath>sql-tutorial.ditamap</filepath> file contains a
          <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> element that groups together several topics that
        collectively comprise an overview of SQL.<fig>
          <title>DITA map that contains a <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> element</title>
          <codeblock>&lt;!-- Excerpt from sql-tutorial.ditamap -->
&lt;topicset id="sqlbasics" href="sqlOverview.dita">
  &lt;topicref href="sqlSelection.dita"/>
  &lt;topicref href="sqlJoin.dita"/>
  &lt;topicref href="sqlFilter.dita"/>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/topicset></codeblock>
        </fig></p>
<p >Another map can include that topic set, in addition to content related to
        programming with JDBC.<fig>
          <title>DITA map that contains a <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement> element</title>
          <codeblock>&lt;topichead navtitle="Mastering JDBC">
  <b>&lt;topicsetref href="sql-tutorial.ditamap#sqlbasics"/></b>
  &lt;topicref href="jdbcPrepare.dita"/>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/topichead></codeblock>
        </fig></p>
<p>A reader of the JDBC information will see the content integrated as a single unit.<fig>
<title>Result of the reuse</title>
<codeblock>&lt;topichead navtitle="Mastering JDBC">
  &lt;topicset id="sqlbasics" href="sqlOverview.dita">
    &lt;topicref href="sqlSelection.dita"/>
    &lt;topicref href="sqlJoin.dita"/>
    &lt;topicref href="sqlFilter.dita"/>
    &lt;!-- ... -->
  &lt;/topicset>
  &lt;topicref href="jdbcPrepare.dita"/>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/topichead></codeblock>
</fig></p></example>
</refbody>
</reference>

