<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="topicmeta" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title><xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc>The <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element defines the metadata that applies to a
    topic when it appears in a map. When appropriate, that metadata also applies to the other topics
    in the map that are contained by the same element that contains the <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element.
    When creating links, <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> content can also be used to override the title and short
    description that are used for the link. In addition, it can be used to add index entries to
    referenced content using the <xmlelement>keywords</xmlelement> element.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>elements<indexterm>basic map<indexterm><xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>examples<indexterm>maps<indexterm>audience
          definition</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>maps<indexterm>examples<indexterm>audience
            definition</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>metadata</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>metadata<indexterm>maps</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody><section id="section-1">The metadata given in a <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element is
      specific to a given context within a map. If a reference to a single resource appears more
      than once in a map or set of maps, unique metadata <ph rev="public-review-1">can</ph> be
      specified in each instance. For example, the two references to a single resource <ph
        rev="public-review-1">might</ph> specify different navigation titles or search titles, each
      of which is specific to a single context.<note>The topic <xref
          href="../../archSpec/base/cascading-in-a-ditamap.dita" format="dita"/> in the DITA
        Architectural Specification provides more information about which metadata elements inside
          <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> cascade to other <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
        elements. In addition, the topic <xref
          href="../../archSpec/base/reconciling-topic-and-map-metadata.dita"/> provides more
        information about how metadata specified in the map interacts with metadata specified in
        each topic.</note></section><section conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-topicmeta/contains" id="contains" otherprops="contains"></section><section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance">
      <title>Inheritance</title>
      <p>- map/topicmeta </p>
    </section>
    <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>In this example, the metadata defined by the <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element
        applies to the associated <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> (<filepath>bats.dita</filepath>)
        and all of its children. The <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element contains an audience
        definition that indicates that <filepath>bats.dita</filepath> and its children are of
        interest to experienced programmers who are troubleshooting. </p>
      <codeblock>&lt;map&gt;
  &lt;topicref href="bats.dita"&gt;
    <b>&lt;topicmeta&gt;</b>
      &lt;audience type="programmer" job="troubleshooting" experiencelevel="expert"/&gt;
    <b>&lt;/topicmeta&gt;</b>
    &lt;topicref href="batcaring.dita"&gt;&lt;/topicref&gt;
    &lt;topicref href="batfeeding.dita"&gt;&lt;/topicref&gt;
  &lt;/topicref&gt;
&lt;/map&gt;</codeblock>
    </example>
    <section id="attributes"><title>Attributes</title><sectiondiv
        conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/standard-topicmeta-attributes"
      /></section></refbody>
</reference>

