<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="topichead" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>topichead</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>topichead</xmlelement> element provides a title-only entry in a
    navigation map, which should appear as a heading when the map is rendered as a table of
    contents. In print contexts it should also appear as a heading in the rendered
    content.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>elements<indexterm>mapgroup<indexterm><xmlelement>topichead</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>formatting
          expectations<indexterm><xmlelement>topicgroup</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>messages issued by processors<indexterm><xmlelement>topichead</xmlelement> with
            no navigation title</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="section-1">Beginning with DITA 1.2, the navtitle can be specified by using a
        <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> element within the <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement>
      element, so the <xmlelement>topichead</xmlelement> element no longer requires the
        <xmlatt>navtitle</xmlatt> attribute. In order to ensure backward compatibility with earlier
      versions of DITA, the new <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> element is not required. However,
      a <xmlelement>topichead</xmlelement> element must contain either a <xmlatt>navtitle</xmlatt>
      attribute or a <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element that contains a
        <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> element. DITA processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
        >SHOULD</term> generate a warning if a navigation title is not
      specified.</section>
<section conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-topichead/contains" id="contains" otherprops="contains"></section>
<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance"><title>Inheritance</title><p>+
map/topicref mapgroup-d/topichead </p></section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title><p>Note that in the following example, the first <xmlelement>topichead</xmlelement> element uses a
          <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> element to provide the title, while the second
          <xmlelement>topichead</xmlelement> element uses a <xmlatt>navtitle</xmlatt> attribute.
        This is only to illustrate that both uses are valid; in general, the element is preferred
        over the attribute.</p><codeblock>&lt;map>
  <b>&lt;topichead></b>
    <b>&lt;topicmeta>&lt;navtitle>Computers&lt;/navtitle>&lt;/topicmeta></b>
    &lt;topicref href="eniac.dita"/>
    &lt;topicref href="system360.dita"/>
    &lt;topicref href="pdp8.dita"/>
  <b>&lt;/topichead></b>
  <b>&lt;topichead navtitle="Books"></b>
    &lt;topicref href="hardback.dita"/>
    &lt;topicref href="paperback.dita"/>
  <b>&lt;/topichead></b>
&lt;/map></codeblock></example>
<section id="attributes"><title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          href="../attributes/universalAttributes.dita"/>, <xref
          href="../attributes/commonMapAttributes.dita"/>, <xmlatt>navtitle</xmlatt> and
          <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> from <xref
          href="../attributes/topicrefElementAttributes.dita#topicref-element-atts"/>, and <xref
          href="../attributes/commonAttributes.dita#common-atts/outputclass"/>. <ph
          conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/locktitle-no-purpose"/></p>
      <p>The <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>format</xmlatt>, and <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attributes
        from <xref href="../attributes/linkRelationshipAttributes.dita"/> are also available.</p>
      </section>
</refbody>
</reference>

