<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="topicset" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> element defines a complete unit of content that can
    be reused in other DITA maps or other <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> elements. Unlike the
    base <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element, the <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> is
    explicitly intended to define a set of topics that are often or always used as a unit; it can be
    especially useful for task composition in which larger tasks are composed of smaller tasks. The
      <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute on a <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> is required, which
    ensures that the complete unit is available for reuse in other contexts. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>elements<indexterm>mapgroup<indexterm><xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="section-1">
      <p>A <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> is similar to a source file that contains nested
        topics, in that the combination of topics constitutes a complete self-contained unit. That
        unit of content can stand independently of the containing, prior, and following content
        within the original map context.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="specialization-hierarchy">
      <title>Specialization hierarchy</title>
      <p>+ map/topicref mapgroup-d/topicset </p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          keyref="attributes-universal"/> (with a narrowed definition of
          <xmlatt>id</xmlatt>, given below), <xref
          keyref="attributes-linkRelationship"/> (with a narrowed definition of
          <xmlatt>href</xmlatt>, given below), <xref keyref="attributes-commonMap"
        />, <xref keyref="attributes-topicrefElement"/>, <xref
          href="../attributes/thekeysattribute.dita"><xmlatt>keys</xmlatt></xref>, and <xref
          href="../attributes/thekeyrefattribute.dita"><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></xref>.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><xmlatt>id</xmlatt>
            <ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/required-attr"/></dt>
          <dd>This ID is the target for references by to the current set of information. The ID is
            required in order to ensure that a <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> is defined as a
            reusable unit of information. See <xref href="../../archSpec/base/id.dita"/> for more
            details.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/href-on-topicref">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <!--DITA 1.2 had a default of chunk="to_navigation" (with dash not underscore), but this default was removed in DITA 1.3.-->
      </dl>
    </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples"><title>Example</title><p>This <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> represents a set of overview information about SQL. The
        information is reusable as a unit.</p><codeblock>&lt;topicset id="sqlbasics" href="sqlOverview.dita">
  &lt;topicref href="sqlSelection.dita"/>
  &lt;topicref href="sqlJoin.dita"/>
  &lt;topicref href="sqlFilter.dita"/>
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/topicset></codeblock></example>
</refbody>
</reference>

