<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="topicref" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement></title>
 <abstract>
  <shortdesc>A topic reference is the mechanism for referencing a topic from a DITA map. It can
   nest, which enables the expression of navigation and table-of-content hierarchies, as well as
   containment hierarchies and parent-child relationships.</shortdesc>
 </abstract>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>elements<indexterm>basic map<indexterm><xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
<refbody>
  <section id="usage-information">
   <title>Usage information</title>
   <p>You can set the collection type of a parent <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> to determine how
    its children are related to each other. You can also express relationships among
     <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements by using group and table structures (such as
     <xmlelement>topicgroup</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>reltable</xmlelement>). Relationships are
    expressed as links in the output; by default, each participant in a relationship has links to
    the other participants in that relationship. </p>
   <p>You can fine tune the output from your map by setting different attributes on the
     <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element. For example, the <xmlatt>linking</xmlatt> attribute
    controls how a topic&apos;s relationships to other topics are expressed as links, and the
     <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt> attribute controls whether the topic shows up in TOC or navigation
    output.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="attributes">
   <title>Attributes</title>
   <sectiondiv
    conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/standard-topicref-attributes"/>
  </section>
<example id="example" otherprops="examples">
<title>Example</title>
<p>In this example, there are six <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements. They are nested and
have a hierarchical relationship. <filepath>bats.dita</filepath> is the parent topic and the other
topics are its children.</p>
<codeblock xml:space="preserve">&lt;map title="Bats"&gt;
 &lt;topicref href="bats.dita" type="topic"&gt;
  &lt;topicref href="batcaring.dita" type="task"&gt;&lt;/topicref&gt;
  &lt;topicref href="batfeeding.dita" type="task"&gt;&lt;/topicref&gt;
  &lt;topicref href="batsonar.dita" type="concept"&gt;&lt;/topicref&gt;
  &lt;topicref href="batguano.dita" type="reference"&gt;&lt;/topicref&gt;
  &lt;topicref href="bathistory.dita" type="reference"&gt;&lt;/topicref&gt;
 &lt;/topicref&gt;
&lt;/map&gt;</codeblock>
</example>
</refbody>
</reference>

