<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="ux-window" >
  <title><xmlelement>ux-window</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc>A UX window specification is a collection of metadata for a
    window or viewport in which a user assistance topic or web page can be
    displayed. The window or viewport can be referenced by the
      <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> element that is associated with a
    topic or <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>context-sensitive help</indexterm>
        <indexterm>user assistance</indexterm>
        <indexterm>elements<indexterm>basic map<indexterm><xmlelement>ux-window</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>The <xmlelement>ux-window</xmlelement> element can be used in any
          <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element in a map. If more than one
          <xmlelement>ux-window</xmlelement> element in a map has the same <xmlatt>name</xmlatt>
        attribute, the first window specification in document order with that <xmlatt>name</xmlatt>
        attribute is used.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-idandconrefatts"/>, <ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ref-metadataatts"/>, <xref keyref="attributes-universal/class"><xmlatt>class</xmlatt></xref>, and the
        attributes defined below.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="uxatt-features"><xmlatt>features</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Provides a list of other window features, such as size,
            position, or scroll bars. Each feature name and value can not
            contain any blank space, and each feature name and value is
            separated by a comma or other delimiter character.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="uxatt-full-screen"><xmlatt>full-screen</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Indicates whether the window is initially displayed in a
            maximized state. Allowable values are <keyword>yes</keyword>,
              <keyword>no</keyword>, and <xref
              keyref="attributes-useconreftarget"
              >-dita-use-conref-target</xref>. The default value is
              <keyword>no</keyword>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="uxatt-height"><xmlatt>height</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the height of the window. <ph
              conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/height-width-units"
            /></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="uxatt-left"><xmlatt>left</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the left position of the target help window,
            whether relative to the calling window or to the entire
            display. The value of this attribute is a real number
            optionally followed by a unit of measure from the set of pc,
            pt, px, in, cm, mm, em (picas, points, pixels, inches,
            centimeters, millimeters, and ems respectively). The default
            unit is px (pixels).
            <!--Possible values include: <userinput>5</userinput>, <userinput>5in</userinput>, and <userinput>10.5cm</userinput>. --></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="uxatt-name"><xmlatt>name</xmlatt>
            <ph conkeyref="reuse-attributes/required-attr"/></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the value used to refer to this window
            definition.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="uxatt-on-top"><xmlatt>on-top</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Indicates whether the initial z-order of the target help
            window is on top of all windows on the desktop. Allowable
            values are: <keyword>yes</keyword>, <keyword>no</keyword>, and
              <xref keyref="attributes-useconreftarget"
              >-dita-use-conref-target</xref>. The default value is
              <keyword>no</keyword>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="uxatt-relative"><xmlatt>relative</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Indicates whether the window dimensions are relative to the
            calling window or the entire target display. The default value
            is <keyword>no</keyword>. The following are allowable values: <dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>no</dt>
                <dd>The window dimensions specified on this element are
                  absolute positions; they are not relative to the calling
                  window.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>yes</dt>
                <dd>The window dimensions specified on this element are
                  relative to the calling window.</dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="uxatt-top"><xmlatt>top</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the top position of the target help window, whether
            relative to the calling window or to the entire display. The
            value of this attribute is a real number optionally followed by
            a unit of measure from the set of pc, pt, px, in, cm, mm, em
            (picas, points, pixels, inches, centimeters, millimeters, and
            ems respectively). The default unit is px (pixels).
            <!--Possible values include: <userinput>5</userinput>, <userinput>5in</userinput>, and <userinput>10.5cm</userinput>. --></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="uxatt-width"><xmlatt>width</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the width of the window. <ph
              conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/height-width-units"
            /></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry conkeyref="reuse-attributes/ditauseconref">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Examples</title>
      <p>This section shows how the <xmlelement>ux-window</xmlelement> and
          <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> elements work together to
        define and use window definitions.</p>
      <fig id="fig_nky_ftw_3nb">
        <title>Using <xmlelement>ux-window</xmlelement> with
          <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement></title>
        <p>The following code sample shows how a window with a name of "help" is defined in the map.
          The window name is later referenced by the <xmlatt>ux-windowref</xmlatt> attribute on the
            <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> element.</p>
        <codeblock>&lt;map>
 &lt;title>Widget Help&lt;/title>
 &lt;topicmeta>
  <b>&lt;ux-window id="fg23" name="help" top="10" left="20" height="400" width="500" 
     features="status=yes,toolbar=no,menubar=no,location=no" relative="yes"
     full-screen="no" /></b>
 &lt;/topicmeta>
 &lt;topicref href="file_ops.dita" type="concept">
   &lt;topicref href="saving.dita" type="task" />
   &lt;topicref href="deleting.dita" type="task" />
   &lt;topicref href="editing.dita" type="task">
     &lt;topicmeta>  
       <b>&lt;resourceid id="ab43" appname="ua" 
          appid="5432" ux-context-string="idh_fileedit" ux-windowref="help" /></b>
     &lt;/topicmeta>
   &lt;/topicref>
&lt;/topicref>
&lt;/map&gt;</codeblock>
      </fig>
      <fig id="fig_tvf_jtw_3nb">
        <title>Using multiple <xmlelement>ux-window</xmlelement> definitions</title>
        <p>The following code sample shows how multiple window
          specifications can be defined for alternate presentations, such
          as desktop computers and tablets:</p>
        <codeblock>&lt;map&gt;
 &lt;title>Puggles Help&lt;/title>
 &lt;topicmeta>
 <b>&lt;ux-window id="p76" name="ux-tablet" top="1cm" left="1cm" height="4cm" width="3cm" 
    features="status=no,toolbar=no,menubar=no,location=no" relative="no"
    full-screen="no" /></b>
 <b>&lt;ux-window id="p80" name="ux-desktop" top="5cm" left="10cm" height="16cm" width="12cm" 
    features="status=yes,toolbar=no,menubar=no,location=yes" relative="no"
    full-screen="no" /></b>
 &lt;/topicmeta>
 &lt;topicref href="c_puggles_intro.dita" type="concept">
  &lt;!-- ... -->
 &lt;/topicref>
&lt;/map&gt;</codeblock>
      </fig>
    </example>
  </refbody>
</reference>
