<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="added_to_standard">
    <title>Added to standard</title>
    <shortdesc>New domains, elements, and attributes have been added to DITA 2.0 to improve the
        usability of the standard or to address use cases where DITA 1.3 failed to offer an
        acceptable solution. <draft-comment author="dawnstevens">There's really no way in this
            summary document to know where the new elements are allowed. Should this be specified
            here somewhere – in changes to the content models of elements, for example?
        </draft-comment></shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <section id="section_dcz_jtd_3vb">
            <title>Domains</title>
            <p>DITA 2.0 introduces the following domains and elements within those domains:<dl
                    id="dl_gxs_25d_3vb">
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt>Alternative-titles</dt>
                        <dd>The alternative-titles domain introduces a new base element type
                                <xmlelement>titlealt</xmlelement>which is used to define a variety
                            of alternative titles, including the existing
                                <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> and
                                <xmlelement>searchtitle</xmlelement> elements which become
                            specializations of the new <xmlelement>titlealt</xmlelement>. The domain
                            also adds the following new elements as specializations of
                                <xmlelement>titlealt</xmlelement>:<dl id="dl_mmv_nzl_3vb">
                                <dlentry>
                                    <dt><xmlelement>linktitle</xmlelement></dt>
                                    <dd>This element provide a title to use when the item is
                                        referenced; for example, a title for a non-DITA
                                        resource.</dd>
                                </dlentry>
                                <dlentry>
                                    <dt><xmlelement>subtitle</xmlelement></dt>
                                    <dd>This element indicates that the content is a subordinate
                                        title for a resource.</dd>
                                </dlentry>
                                <dlentry>
                                    <dt><xmlelement>titlehint</xmlelement></dt>
                                    <dd>This element provides information to map authors about the
                                        title of the referenced resource.</dd>
                                </dlentry>
                            </dl><p>Each of these elements are convenience elements, used instead of
                                requiring users to specify an <xmlatt>title-role</xmlatt> attribute
                                value on the base <xmlelement>titlealt</xmlelement>
                            element.</p></dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt>Emphasis</dt>
                        <dd>The emphasis domain is used to indicate text that has special meaning or
                            importance, or text that needs to be distinguished from the surrounding
                            text. It includes the following new elements:<dl id="dl_lkp_mzl_3vb">
                                <dlentry>
                                    <dt><xmlelement>em</xmlelement></dt>
                                    <dd>This element indicates that the content is of particular
                                        importance or has special meaning.</dd>
                                </dlentry>
                                <dlentry>
                                    <dt><xmlelement>strong</xmlelement></dt>
                                    <dd>This element indicates that its text is of greater
                                        importance than its surrounding text.</dd>
                                </dlentry>
                            </dl></dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt>Hardware</dt>
                        <dd>The hardware domain is used to document physical devices, much like the
                            user interface domain documents software interfaces. It includes the
                            following new elements:<ul id="ul_u5k_hvd_3vb">
                                <li><xmlelement>hwcontrol</xmlelement>. This element contains the
                                    name of a key, button, switch, or other physical control on a
                                    device. </li>
                                <li><xmlelement>partno</xmlelement>. This element contains a part
                                    number.</li>
                            </ul></dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt>Syntax diagram</dt>
                        <dd>The Syntax diagram domain was split from the Programming domain to
                            contain the <xmlelement>syntaxdiagram</xmlelement> element and its
                            children.</dd>
                    </dlentry>
                </dl></p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_u2z_qtd_3vb">
            <title>Elements</title>
            <p>DITA 2.0 introduces the following new elements:<dl id="dl_n4b_lxl_3vb">
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt><xmlelement>audio</xmlelement></dt>
                        <dd>This element references audio content in a DITA topic. It is based on
                            the HTML5 <xmlelement>audio</xmlelement> element and includes the
                            following new attributes:<ul id="ul_fnw_zvd_3vb">
                                <li><xmlatt>autoplay</xmlatt>. Specifies whether the resource
                                    automatically plays when it is presented. </li>
                                <li><xmlatt>controls</xmlatt>. Specifies whether the presentation of
                                    the resource includes user interface controls. </li>
                                <li><xmlatt>loop</xmlatt>. Specifies whether the resource loops when
                                    played. </li>
                                <li><xmlatt>muted</xmlatt>. Specifies whether the resource is
                                    muted.</li>
                                <li><xmlatt>tabindex</xmlatt>. Specifies whether the resource can be
                                    focused and where it participates in sequential keyboard
                                    navigation.</li>
                            </ul></dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt><xmlelement>diagnostics</xmlelement></dt>
                        <dd>This element provides information used in determining which cause-remedy
                            pair applies in a given situation. It can contain one or both of the
                            following new elements:<dl id="dl_css_pyl_3vb">
                                <dlentry>
                                    <dt><xmlelement>diagnostics-general</xmlelement></dt>
                                    <dd>The element provides non-procedural diagnostic information,
                                        such as flowchart diagram or a look-up table of
                                        symptoms.</dd>
                                </dlentry>
                                <dlentry>
                                    <dt><xmlelement>diagnostics-steps</xmlelement></dt>
                                    <dd>This element provides step-by-step instructions for
                                        diagnosing the problem. </dd>
                                </dlentry>
                            </dl></dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt><xmlelement>fallback</xmlelement></dt>
                        <dd>This element is used to specify content to be rendered if a referenced
                            item cannot be rendered or resolved.</dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt><xmlelement>include</xmlelement></dt>
                        <dd>This element points to non-DITA resources that should be directly
                            included in rendered results. The attributes <xmlatt>encoding</xmlatt>
                            and <xmlatt>parse</xmlatt> character encoding and processing
                            expectations.</dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt><xmlelement>keytext</xmlelement></dt>
                        <dd>This element contains variable or link text that is used when resolving
                            key references. It also specifies alternate text for images that are
                            referenced by keys.</dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt><xmlelement>mapresources</xmlelement></dt>
                        <dd>This element serves as a general container within maps and bookmaps for
                            resource-only topic references, such as key definitions and topics that
                            contain content used only by content reference. It sets
                                <xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt> to "resource-only" by default.</dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt><xmlelement>media-source</xmlelement></dt>
                        <dd>This element specifies the location of an audio or video resource.</dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt><xmlelement>media-track</xmlelement></dt>
                        <dd>This element specifies supplemental text-based data for the referenced
                            media. It includes the following new attributes:<dl id="dl_ubb_czl_3vb">
                                <dlentry>
                                    <dt><xmlatt>kind</xmlatt></dt>
                                    <dd>Specifies the usage for the track resource. Recognized
                                        values are limited to:<ul id="ul_gww_1zl_3vb">
                                            <li>captions</li>
                                            <li>chapters</li>
                                            <li>descriptions</li>
                                            <li>metadata</li>
                                            <li>subtitles</li>
                                        </ul></dd>
                                </dlentry>
                                <dlentry>
                                    <dt><xmlatt>srclang</xmlatt></dt>
                                    <dd>Specifies the language of the track resource.</dd>
                                </dlentry>
                            </dl></dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt><xmlelement>poster</xmlelement></dt>
                        <dd>This element specifies an image to display in place of the video
                            referenced by its parent element before playback begins.</dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt><xmlelement>video</xmlelement></dt>
                        <dd>This element references video content in a DITA topic. It is based on
                            the HTML5 <xmlelement>audio</xmlelement> element and includes  the same
                            new attributes as those listed for <xmlelement>audio</xmlelement>.</dd>
                    </dlentry>
                </dl></p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_mwy_5td_3vb">
            <title>Attributes</title>
            <p>DITA 2.0 introduces the following new attributes:<ul id="ul_rbg_wtd_3vb">
                    <li><xmlatt>impose-rule</xmlatt>. When specified on a
                            <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element, with a value of "impose", and
                        the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> is a reference to a map, this
                        attribute indicates that the role of the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
                        overrides the role of the referenced map.</li>
                    <li><xmlatt>specializations</xmlatt>. This attribute enables processors to
                        determine which attribute specializations are available in a document.</li>
                    <li><xmlatt>subjectrefs</xmlatt>. This attribute associates
                            <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
                        elements with subjects defined in subject scheme maps by specifying one or
                        more keys that are each defined by a subject definition in the subject
                        scheme map. Multiple values are separated by white space.</li>
                </ul></p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
